

--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
 
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 1 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AS Watson Group 
 
Policy on Investment 


--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 2 of 59 
 
 
Table of Content 
1. Scope 
2. Key Changes from Version 9.0 
3. General Procedures 
4. Capital Expenditure (“CapEx”) 
4.1 Definition 
4.2 New Store & Relocation CapEx Approval (within budget) 
4.3 Store Refit CapEx Approval (within budget) 
4.4 Non-Store CapEx Approval (within budget) 
4.5 Purchase of Private Cars 
4.6 Budget CapEx Increase and Unbudgeted CapEx Approval (as Exception ONLY) 
4.7 CapEx Overspend (should be STRICTLY AVOIDED) 
4.8 Unspent CapEx Budget at Year End 
5. Store Closure and Store Lease Renewal 
6. Non-current Asset Write-off / Disposal Costs 
7. Business Acquisition and Disposal (incl. Equity Participation Changes) 
8. Significant Expenditures 
9. Engagement of Third Party Representatives 
10. Property Related Transactions in Hong Kong, Macau and China 
11. Charitable Donations & Sponsorships and Contribution to Political Associations 
12. Store Investment Cycle 
13. Finance Authorisation / Approval Map 
14. Reporting 
Appendix I – ASW Group Standard Financial Model 
Appendix II – CapEx Control Sheet 
Appendix III – Hutchison Property Memo 
Appendix IV – ASK Paper 
Appendix V – Monthly CapEx Report 
Appendix VI – New Store / Store Refit Performance Tracking 
Appendix VII – New Stores Strategy 
Appendix VIII – Major Refit Programme Strategy 
Appendix IX – Value Engineering Report 


--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 3 of 59 
 
 
Appendix X – CKHH Group Car Purchase Requisition Form 
Appendix XI – CKHH Group Third Party Representatives Requisition Form 
 
 


--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 4 of 59 
 
 
1. Scope 
 
 
This document covers the Financial Approval of the following areas: 
 
 
a) Capital Expenditure 
b) Store Closure and Store Lease Renewal  
c) Non-current Asset Write Off 
d) Business Acquisition and Disposal (inc. Equity Participation Changes) 
e) Significant Expenditures 
f) Engagement of Third Party Representatives 
g) Property Related Transactions in Hong Kong, Macau and China 
h) Charitable Donations & Sponsorships and Contributions to Political 
Associations  


--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 5 of 59 
 
 
2. Key Changes from Version 9.0 
 
a) Section 4.3.5 – Policy on Individual Store Refits 
A clarification has been added under 4.3.5.1 i) regarding forced refit proposals. 
If a business is being forced to undergo a refit, the proposal shall be prepared 
using the New Store Financial Model. 
b) Section 9 – Engagement of Third Party Representatives 
The approval threshold has been revised for the engagement of Management 
Consultants: 
• Commitments of HK$1 M or below require approval from Business Unit 
MD and FD (subject to authorisations set by Divisional Teams). 
• Commitments between HK$1 M and HK$5 M require approval from both 
ASW Group CEO and ASW Group Chief Financial Officer. 
• Commitments of HK$5 M or above must be approved by the ASW 
Investment Committee. 
 


--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 6 of 59 
 
 
3. General Procedures  
 
a) No persons from any business unit within A S Watson Group (hereafter “ASW”) can 
enter into any commitments with outside parties (whether oral or written) without first 
having obtained finance approval, if such commitment falls within an area covered by 
this document (e.g. lease agreements and major financial commitments). 
b) All requests for CKHH and ASW Group approval will require a memo covering 
background, commercial rationale and key financial measures to be submitted to ASW 
Group Finance. 
c) The memo should be written by the Business Unit Finance Director (FD) and signed by 
the Business Unit Managing Director (MD).   
d) Approval memos MUST be signed by the Divisional CEO and FD (where appropriate) 
prior to submission to ASW Group Finance.   
e) If the Divisional office is located outside of Hong Kong and a signed copy of the memo 
cannot be easily sent to ASW Group Finance, alternative arrangements can be agreed 
with ASW Group Finance to adopt more convenient means of evidencing endorsement 
by relevant management.  The Divisional FDs should liaise with ASW Group Finance 
to agree on an alternative arrangement. 
f) In the absence of Divisional CEO and / or FD, or under special circumstances, with the 
endorsement of ASW Group Finance, approval authority of BU can be raised to that of 
Divisional level.  BUs should assume a more conservative approval limit unless special 
arrangements have been agreed with ASW Group Finance. 
g) The memo should be accompanied by financial analysis (ASW Group standard 
Financial Models should be used where appropriate), including but not limited to, IRR, 
incremental EBIT impact and cash payback calculations for the proposed investment. 
h) All requests to CKHH need prior approval from ASW Group. 
i) Adequate time must be allowed for review and approval to be done (at least a week for 
each level of approval, i.e. one week for ASW and one week for CKHH).  
j) To allow the approval process to take place while final site planning and negotiations 
(e.g. on rental) are still to conclude, BU can use estimates instead of finalised numbers 
in the financial models for approval.  Any approval will then be granted for conditions 
“no worse than” that contained in the submitted version (i.e. only upside to be had).  
Otherwise, another approval will have to be sought before any commitments can be 
entered into.   
However, such estimates must be “conservative” and the memo must explicitly state the 
financial consequences of “worse case” scenario. 
k) CapEx approval granted to specific project / new store is only valid for the year(s) 
specified.   If non-store projects, new stores, store lease renewals or store relocations are 
delayed by 12 months or more from the approved date of commencement, BU must re-
table the case to ASW Investment Committee for re-approval.   


--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 7 of 59 
 
 
l) For closure and relocation applications already approved by ASW Investment 
Committee, if the business unit later considers it is more beneficial to retain the existing 
store, the business unit should seek the approval of ASW Investment Committee again. 
m) In the event of overspend of Rate Card Opex applications (e.g. Significant Expenditures 
– Rate Cards, Engagement of Third Party Representatives etc), the following will apply: 
i. If the overspend is solely due to higher volume than approved, there is no need for 
further approval. 
ii. If the overspend is due to reasons other than higher volume than approved (e.g. higher 
unit rate), then re-approval in accordance with section 8 is required.  
n) In the event of overspend of non-Rate Card Opex applications (e.g. S ignificant 
Expenditures - Commitments, Engagement of Third Party Representatives  etc) which 
were approved by ASW Investment Committee, the following will apply: 
i. If the overspend is less than 10% of the approved amount, then approva l is required 
by BU FD and BU MD. 
ii. If the overspen d is 10% of the approved amount or above, then approval by ASW 
Investment Committee is required.  
o) In the exceptional circumstance where (1) an overspend of a non-Rate Card Opex which 
was approved within a BU and/or Division arises and (2) the sum of overspend amount 
and original planned amount would exceed the original approver’s limit (i.e. BU and/or 
Division), the BU and/or Division should submit the whole case of non-Rate Card Opex 
for the next level’s approval (e.g. ASW Investment Committee). 
p) All IT related expenditure (including both CapEx and Opex) applications require IT 
Departments’ approval, prior to submission to the corresponding line management and 
finance authority at the same level. Thus, ALL IT related expenditure applications that 
require ASW Investment Committee approval will require PRIOR approval from the 
ASW Group Retail Technology Director .  Likewise for other functions, such as Big 
Data, DataLab, eLab, Digital, HR, Supply Chain and Security. 
q) All Supply Chain and Logistics expenditure (including both CapEx and Opex) 
applications whose amount exceeds HK$ 1m will require PRIOR approval from the 
ASW Group Supply Chain Director, before being proceeded to the corresponding line 
management and finance authority.  Those projects whose amount does not exceed HK$ 
1m will require Business Unit Supply Chain and Logistics Departments’ approval, prior 
to submission to the Business Unit MD and FD. 
r) All non-trade procurement tender and non-IB submitted services tender (including both 
CapEx and Opex) applications that require ASW Investment Committee approval will 
require clearance from the ASW Group Procurement Services (“GPS”) of Group 
International Buying. 
  


--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 8 of 59 
 
 
s) All applications must comply with the requirements of the current applicable version of 
the ASW Group Tax Policy & Procedures, Group Legal Policy and Policy on Non-Trade 
Procurement. 
t) This document outlines the default approval procedures as prescribed by ASW Group 
Finance.  Each division may further specify more stringent controls and procedures 
within its BUs.  BUs may seek exceptions to approval limits (e.g. based on maturity and 
scale of business).  Any request for such exception must be made by the Divisional FD 
and CEO, to the ASW Group Chief Financial Of ficer for approval, with proposed 
signing limits and rationale.  Unless written approval is granted by the ASW Group 
Chief Financial Officer, BUs must adhere to policies at least as stringent as that outlined 
in this document. 
u) All CapEx  applications of above HK$ 10 M require CKHH approval. ASW Group 
Finance will manage the submission from ASW to CKHH. 
 
 


--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 9 of 59 
 
 
4. Capital Expenditure (“CapEx”) 
4.1 Definition 
 
4.1.1 According to ASW Group Policy on Accounting, CapEx is defined as the expenditure 
on acquiring an asset with a useful life exceeding one year and intended for long -
term use (for details please refer to the applicable section of the current version of 
the ASW Group Policy on Accounting).  It includes:  
 
a) Expenditure on purchasing (including import duties and non -refundable 
purchase taxes), installing and/or enhancing an existing asset (e.g. costs 
associated with fitting out new stores) 
 
b) Consultancy, design and professional fees and materials for assets under 
development / construction.  E.g. IT system external consultant 
implementation costs 
 
4.1.2 The following items are excluded from CapEx and should be stated separately, in 
any investment proposal: 
 
a) Rental Deposit / Refund 
b) Lease Acquisition Cost  
c) Lease Premium paid to Landlord 
d) Reverse Premium received from Landlord 
e) Key Money 
 
Note: Funds received from landlord which are explicitly Capital Contribution should 
be INCLUDED in the total CapEx quoted for the investment proposal. 
   
 
 


--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 10 of 59 
 
 
4.2 New Store & Relocation CapEx Approval (within budget) 
 
4.2.1 Policy  
 
a) All proposals for new store and store relocation must be supported by the ASW 
Group Standard New Store Financial Model or Store Relocation Financial Model 
(see Appendix I), with written explanation detailing the background and 
investment rationale for the requests.   
b) The level of authorisation required to approve a new store investment proposal is 
dependent on the type of CapEx involved, as outlined in the table below. 
 
Type of CapEx Ultimate Authorisation 
Required 
If any one of the following applies: 
• CapEx above HK$ 10 M  
• CapEx unbudgeted  
• Budgeted store numbers exceeded 
• Not meeting minimum investment return 
criteria:  
▪ IRR falls below 25%, or  
▪ Cash payback exceeds 4 years 
• Business unit under Stage-gate status of “On 
Hold” 
CKHH Group Chief Financial 
Officer (via ASW) 
All other new stores CapEx  ASW Investment Committee 
 
c) Relocation, no matter what reason, is defined as closure of an existing store and an 
opening of a new store nearby.   
• If the business has the option to choose whether to stay or move to a new 
location (e.g. BU wants to move to another floor with higher traffic flow), then 
the business has to justify the economic rationale of moving (the cost of 
moving versus the INCREMENT AL cash flow the new proposed site would 
generate over the existing site). The assessment is done using the Store Refit 
/ Relocation Financial Model .  The “before relocation” case shall reflect 
projection of the existing store (based on recent performance but with 
appropriate adjustment on sales and costs to reflect likely improvement or 
deterioration of the future performance of the store).  In this case, the financial 
measures will be based on incremental cash flows (“after case” less “before 
case”).  
• If the business is being forced to move to a new location for reasons such as 
enhancement by landlord or mall closure, then the proposal shall be prepared 
based on the New Store Financial Model. 


--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 11 of 59 
 
 
d) In general, the minimum investment return required is IRR of 25% and cash 
payback period of not exceeding 4 years.  There must be very strong reasons to 
support proposals that do not meet these requirements. 
e) All new store and relocation proposals must be submitted together with a CapEx 
Control Sheet (see Appendix II), which tracks the number of stores and CapEx 
amount approved year-to-date versus Budget.  
f) For new stores in Hong Kong  and Macau, Hutchison Property Memo must be 
obtained before approval can be granted from ASW or CKHH. 
g) All new store / relocation CapEx must be within budgeted number of new 
stores and new store CapEx amount (including any authorised increase / 
decrease to budget).  Any proposal that would exceed either the number of new 
stores OR the New Store CapEx amount cannot be approved until approval for the 
additional increase in budgeted number of new stores and/or CapEx amount has 
been granted by CKHH. 
h) All new store and store relocations will be critically evaluated against the Group 
Value Engineering Target. 
i) Performance of all new stores will be tracked on a monthly basis.  On an 
annual basis, Store Strategies must be submitted before the annual budget 
process begins (refer to section 12).  If necessary, ASW Group Finance will apply 
a stage-gate approach to individual BUs.  Criteria and targets will be set and new 
store openings will be slowed down until the BU meets the criteria and targets.   
 
4.2.2 Procedures  
 
a) Documentation to be prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD. 
b) To be reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures. 
c) Submit Financial Model, Memo and all other supporting documentation to ASW 
Group Finance, via the ASW CapEx Approval email address:  
Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
d) New site leases in Hong Kong and Macau will require a Hutchison Property Memo 
(see Appendix III) stating that the proposed rents and rates are reasonable.   
This memo from Hutchison Estate Agents  should be secured in advance of  
submission to ASW Group Finance but could be exempted if the landlord of the 
site is a subsidiary, JCE or associate of Cheung Kong Property Holdings. 
 
e) ASW Group Finance to review before approval can be granted by ASW Investment 
Committee. 
f) For proposals that require CKHH approval, ASW Group Finance will manage the 
submission from ASW to CKHH. 
g) It is the responsibility of the BU FD to keep the CapEx Control Sheet (see 
Appendix II) updated and accurate.  Any approval given on the basis of an error in 


--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 12 of 59 
 
 
the CapEx Control Sheet (e.g. showing an unbudgeted new store request to be 
within budget) is void. 
 


--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 13 of 59 
 
 
4.3 Store Refit CapEx Approval (within budget) 
 
4.3.1 General Policy 
 
a) Store refits are categorised under major refit programmes, store equipment roll-out 
programmes and individual store refits. 
b) Store refits exclude store relocations. 
c) Total investment for a store refit request is the sum of CapEx, including the store’s 
share of equipment roll-outs (please refer to section 4.3.3 for definition), and other 
cash outlay as defined in section 4.1.2, such as lease acquisition cost and key 
money. 
d) In general, the minimum investment return required is IRR of 25% and cash 
payback period of not exceeding 4 years.  There must be very strong reasons to 
support proposals that do not meet these requirements. 
4.3.2 Policy on Major Refit Programmes 
a) Such programmes usually involve significant total investment in a group of stores, 
new store formats, strategic repositioning and thus have high strategic importance.  
If BUs are not sure whether a particular project requires ASW Investment 
Committee approval, BUs should consult with ASW Group Finance for advice. 
b) Approval from ASW Investment Committee must be obtained for all major refit 
programmes prior to their commencement.   
c) All major refit programme proposals must include, but not limited to, the 
following: 
i. Overall refit strategy 
ii. Rollout timeline 
iii. Store selection criteria 
iv. Recent trial performance 
v. Financial summary and overall assumptions 
vi. Project team and key contacts 
Please refer to Appendix VIII for details.   
After approval of the major refit programme, BU should report the progress, 
revisions, and performance versus “before refit” and versus the financial proposal 
of the programme regularly (at least monthly). 
d) The performance of all store refits under major refit programmes will be tracked 
by the Monthly Store Refit Performance Tracker (see Appendix VI) to be submitted 
to ASW Group Finance.   


--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 14 of 59 
 
 
4.3.3 Policy on Store Equipment Roll-outs 
a) A store equipment roll-out is a programme planned to be implemented to a group 
of stores relating to the installation or replacement of store equipment. (For 
example, installing CCTVs for a group of high-shrinkage stores, replacing existing 
EAS panels with new ones for a group of stores, installing fire warning systems in 
stores to comply with legal requirements) 
b) The levels of authorisation follow section 8 Significant Expenditures.  
c) All individual store equipment roll -out proposals that require the approval from 
ASW Investment Committee must be supported by a cost-and-benefit analysis.  A 
memo explaining the background and rationale for the request must be submitted 
together.  
 
4.3.4 Policy on Themed Minor Refit Programmes 
a) A themed minor refit programme is a programme planned to be implemented to a 
group of stores relating to the implementation of a theme, for example, implanting 
a spa inside a group of stores. 
b) The levels of authorisation follow section 8 Significant Expenditures. 
c) All themed minor refit programme  proposals must include, but not limited to, the 
following: 
i. Overall refit strategy 
ii. Rollout timeline 
iii. Store selection criteria 
iv. Recent trial performance 
v. Financial summary and overall assumptions 
vi. Project team and key contacts 
After approval of the themed minor refit programme, BU should report the 
progress, revisions, and performance versus “before refit” and versus the financial 
proposal of the programme regularly (at least monthly). 
d) In addition, for refits that require total investment less than HK$ 500k per store, 
the total CapEx will be tracked by ASW Group Finance.  The relevant MTD and 
YTD CapEx should be reported in their Monthly Store Refit Performance Trackers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3.5 Policy on Individual Store Refits 
a) Individual store refits include store renovations, store down-sizings and other store 
refits. 


--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 15 of 59 
 
 
4.3.5.1 Store renovations and down-sizings 
a) A store renovation is an investment in an existing store to enhance its 
profitability, without changing the existing lease, store shape or store size. 
b) A store down -sizing is an investment to reduce the size of an existing store in 
order to enhance its profitability, with rent intensity unchanged or reduced. 
c) A proposal to reduce the store size with higher rent intensity is regarded as a case 
of other store refits, which is governed by section 4.3.4.2. 
d) The level of authorisation required for individual store renovation or down -
sizing requests is dependent on the amount of total investment involved per store, 
as stated in the table below.   
Total Investment Amount 
per Store 
Type Ultimate Authorisation Required 
> HK$ 10 M 
Major refit 
CKHH Group Chief Financial Officer 
(via ASW) 
HK$ 2 M to  HK$ 10 M ASW Investment Committee 
HK$ 1 M to < HK$ 2 M Divisional CEO and FD 
HK$ 0.5 M to < HK$ 1 M Business Unit MD and FD 
< HK$ 0.5 M Minor refit Business Unit MD and FD 
 
e) All individual store proposals with total investment HK$ 500k or more per store 
must be supported by the ASW Group Standard Store Refit / Relocation 
Financial Model (see Appendix I) so that investment returns will be evaluated 
based on incremental cash flows (“after case” less “before case”).  
f) The performance of all store refits that require total investment HK$ 500k or 
more per store will be tracked by the Monthly Store Refit Performance Tracker 
(see Appendix VI) to be submitted to ASW Group Finance. 
g) Individual store proposals with total investment less than HK$ 500k per store 
can be supported by either (1) the ASW Group Standard Store Refit / Relocation 
Financial Model (see Appendix I) or (2) financial analysis acceptable by the 
approving BU. 
h) In addition, for refits that require total investment less than HK$ 500k per store, 
the total CapEx will be tracked by ASW Group Finance.  The relevant MTD and 
YTD CapEx should be reported in their Monthly Store Refit Performance 
Trackers. 
i) If the business is being forced to refit, then the proposal shall be prepared based 
on the New Store Financial Model. 
4.3.5.2 Policy on other store refits 
a) Other store refits are all other refit cases in stores not covered by the above sub-
sections. Typical examples are (1) store expansions and (2) store size reductions 
with higher rent intensities. 


--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 16 of 59 
 
 
b) A store expansion is defined as the commitment to (1) a lease of an additional 
space(s) while keeping the lease of an existing, adjoining (or nearby) store, or 
(2) a change of an existing lease that gives the BU a bigger store size. 
c) All other store refits will require ASW Investment Committee approval. 
d) All individual other store refit proposals must be supported by the ASW Group 
Standard Store Refit / Relocation Financial Model (see Appendix I) so that 
investment returns will be evaluated based on incremental cash flows (“after 
case” less “before case”).  A memo explaining the background and rationale for 
the request must be submitted together.   
e) The performance of all other store refits will be tracked by the Monthly Store 
Refit Performance Tracker (see Appendix VI) to be submitted to ASW Group 
Finance. 


--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 17 of 59 
 
 
4.3.6 Procedures  
 
a) Documentation to be prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD. 
b) To be reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures. 
c) For proposals that require ASW and/or CKHH approval: 
i. Submit Financial Model, Memo and other supporting documentation to ASW 
Group Finance, via the ASW CapEx Approval email address:  
Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
ii. ASW Group Finance to review before approval can be granted by ASW 
Investment Committee  
iii. For proposals that require CKHH approval, ASW Group Finance will manage 
the submission from ASW to CKHH 


--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 18 of 59 
 
 
4.4 Non-Store CapEx Approval (within budget) 
 
4.4.1 Policy 
 
a) The level of authorisation required for non -store CapEx approval is dependent on 
the amount of CapEx involved, as stated in the table s per section  8 Significant 
Expenditures. 
b) In addition to the criteria above, for property related transactions in Hong Kong, 
Macau and China, please refer to section 10. 
c) All IT related projects require IT Departments approval, prior to submission to the 
corresponding line management and finance authority at the same level.  Thus, 
ALL IT related projects that require ASW Investment Committee approval will 
require PRIOR appr oval from the ASW Group Retail Technology Director .  
Likewise for other functions, such as CRM, Digital, HR, Supply Chain and 
Security. 
d) In addition, the following IT related projects require approval from the ASW Group 
Retail Technology Director: 
i. Strategic IT projects of HK$ 1m or above, AND 
ii. Non-strategic IT projects of HK$ 0.3m or above 
e) Examples of strategic IT include but not limited to: Retek / WES, Retalix, BO, 
Oracle HR, Oracle AVT, Dell PC procurement, Hybris, supplier portals, RSIM / 
Zetes, WINS warehouse system, Datacentre hardware to support Retek / WES / 
Group CRM and Hardware for stores within global store systems tender process. 
f) If in doubt, business units should refer to the ASW Group Retail Technology 
Director on whether an IT related project is strategic or non-strategic. 
g) Selection of new or upgrade of existing enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) and 
business process management (“BPM”) should be conducted with CK Hutchison 
Group Information Services Department (“GISD”) and CK Hutchison Group 
Accounting and Taxation Departm ent (“GATD”). GISD and GATD should in all 
cases be consulted for clarification as to whether or not a system falls into the ERP 
and BPM category prior to any purchase or similar commitment being made. 
h) All Supply Chain and Logistics projects exceeding HK$ 1m will require PRIOR 
approval from the ASW Group Supply Chain Director, before being proceeded to 
the corresponding line management and finance authority.  Those projects not 
exceeding HK$ 1m will require Business Unit Supply Chain and Logistics 
Departments’ approval, prior to submission to the Business Unit MD and FD.   
 
  


--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 19 of 59 
 
 
i) All non -trade procurement tender and non -IB submitted services tender 
applications that require ASW Investment Committee approval will require 
clearance from the ASW Group Procurement Services (“GPS”) of Group 
International Buying. 
j) In accordance with ASW Group Legal Policy, all major legal contracts should be 
discussed with and signed off by the Legal Department in your division.  Any 
comments on risks made by the Legal Department should be explicitly noted in the 
proposal memo.  Any approval granted by ASW Investment Committee would still 
be contingent upon ASW Group Legal signoff. 
k) Any material purchasing contracts involving cross -border payments and inter -
company reallocations must be cleared with ASW Group Tax in accordance with 
the current applicable version of the ASW Group Tax Policy & Procedures before 
signing. 
 
4.4.2 Procedures  
 
a) Documentation to be prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD. 
b) To be reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures. 
c) For IT projects that require ASW and CKHH approval, submit along with other 
supporting materials -an ASK Paper (see Appendix IV). 
d) For IT CapEx  projects, the following information must be included in the 
proposal: 
i. Whether the CapEx has been budgeted  
ii. Basis of investment 
iii. Explanation of benefits of the new system (i.e. what the new system would 
enable in functionality that could not be achieved previously)  
iv. Alternative technologies and/or potential suppliers evaluated 
v. Project management team structure, project timeline and key deliverables 
vi. Breakdown of CapEx involved 
vii. Whether external consultants need to be engaged, and alternatives considered 
viii. Detailed financials 
e) For Supply Chain and Logistics CapEx , the following information must be 
included in the proposal:  
i. Whether the CapEx has been budgeted 
ii. Multiple alternatives (e.g. site locations) with clear evaluation on how each 
rank against key decision criteria 


--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 20 of 59 
 
 
iii. Volume projections in accordance with Budget and 5 Year Plan, and space 
utilisation projection over time    
iv. Detailed financial projections with P&L and cash flow impact against the 
alternatives 
v. KPIs (e.g. cost as a % of net sales) projection as well as historical comparison 
vi. Breakdown of CapEx involved 
vii. The cash flow provided should be the incremental difference  between the 
current scenario and the proposed scenario and/or the difference between the 
proposed scenario and the next best alternative (if the current scenario is not a 
viable option going forward, e.g. cannot renew the lease on the current 
warehouse) 
f) For proposals that require Group Legal Department signoff:  
i. If Group Legal Department approval has been obtained before making the 
proposal to Group Finance, reference to that approval should be made 
explicitly in the memo to Group Finance, and Group Legal should be copied 
on the memo. 
ii. If Group Legal Department approval has not yet been obtained, then reference 
to that should also be made explicitly in the memo to Group Finance, and any 
approval granted by ASW Investment Committee would still be subject to 
ASW Group Legal signoff, regard less of whether it is explicitly stated in the 
approval memo or not.  A copy of the request for approval and the Group 
Finance approval memo should then be submitted by the applying BU to the 
Group Legal Department for reference. 
g) For proposals that require ASW and/or CKHH approval:  
i. Submit appropriate documentation to ASW Group Finance, via the ASW 
CapEx Approval email address:  Capexapproval@aswatson.com  
ii. ASW Group Finance to review before approval can be granted by ASW 
Investment Committee 
iii. For proposals that require CKHH approval, ASW Group Finance will manage 
the submission from ASW to CKHH 
 


--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 21 of 59 
 
 
4.5 Purchase of Private Cars 
 
4.5.1 Policy 
 
All CapEx for the purchase of private cars (including acquisition of previously leased cars) 
must be approved in advance by the ASW Investment Committee and a CKHH director. 
4.5.2 Procedures  
 
a) Documentation to be prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD. 
b) Proposals should include information such as, but not limited to, the purpose of the 
purchase, the price, model and condition of the proposed car to be purchased.    
c) To be reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures. 
d) Submit appropriate documentation including the “ CKHH Group Car Purchase 
Requisition Form” (Appendix X) to ASW Group Finance, via the ASW CapEx 
Approval email address:  Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
e) ASW Group Finance to review before approval can be granted by the ASW Group 
Human Resources Director and ASW Group Chief Financial Officer. 
f) ASW Group Finance will manage the submission from ASW to CKHH (attention 
to CKHH General Manager – Group Human Resources with a cc copy to a CKHH 
director). 
 


--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 22 of 59 
 
 
4.6 Budget CapEx Increase and Unbudgeted CapEx Approval (as Exception ONLY) 
 
4.6.1 Policy 
 
a) All business units should provide a prudent best estimate for each year’s CapEx 
budget (by category) with an aim for NO unbudgeted CapEx (by category) for the 
year. 
b) Approval granted to specific project / new store is only valid for the year(s) 
specified.   
i. If prior to or during the budgeting process, BU foresees certain projects / new 
stores will be delayed, even only partially, to subsequent year(s), the relevant 
CapEx amount must be included in subsequent year(s)’ budget.   
ii. If over 50% of total project CapEx appears likely to be re-phased over different 
years over the project period, BU must obtain the appropriate level of approval 
again. 
c) Subsequent budget CapEx increase and unbudgeted CapEx items MUST be 
approved by CKHH.   
d) CapEx budget is monitored by BU, by category.  That is, any increase in CapEx 
(regardless of amount) in any one category (e.g. Store Refits, IT hardware) in any 
BU, requires prior approval from CKHH, even if the increase can be offset by 
decreases in other areas, e.g. a corresponding decrease in CapEx in another 
category within the same BU, or savings in another BU.  BUs cannot reclassify 
CapEx across categories, nor between BUs, without prior approval. 
e) Without additional CapEx approval, CapEx must be kept within each category’s 
budget levels in terms of value amount.   
f) The number of new store openings (include store relocations) must be kept within 
the budgeted number of new stores as well as the budgeted amount of new store 
CapEx. 
g) Approval for additional CapEx budget is granted only in exceptional cases.  It 
requires CKHH approval and may often be rejected.  Thus BUs should NOT make 
commitments before the additional CapEx approval is authorised by CKHH.  In 
the rare case of approval, it is usually done taking into consideration the year -to-
date performance of the BU concerned, the opportunity to balance out any 
increases with decreases in CapEx in other parts of the Group, and the overall 
financial position of the Group. 
 


--- PAGE 23 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 23 of 59 
 
 
4.6.2 Procedures  
 
a) Any divisions or business units foreseeing the need for additional CapEx should 
indicate their requests to ASW Group Finance before such commitments are made 
and sufficient time should be allowed for the review and approval process. 
b) To request for additional CapEx budget (in any category), BU FDs should prepare 
a memo requesting the increase.  The memo should include the following 
information: 
i. The amount of CapEx by category approved in Budget and the revised amount 
required for the categories concerned 
ii. The rationale for the additional increase above Budget levels 
iii. The financial benefit of the additional investment 
iv. Any proposed and known area of savings that will compensate for the 
overspend amount  (e.g. decrease in new stores CapEx offsetting an increase 
in refit CapEx, the Divisional CEO and FD proposing a decrease in CapEx 
spending in another BU to offset the increase requested in one BU) 
c) Documentation requesting approval for increase in CapEx should be: 
i. Prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD 
ii. Reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures 
iii. Submitted with appropriate documentation to ASW Group Finance, via the 
ASW CapEx Approval email address:  Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
iv. Reviewed by ASW Group Finance before approval can be granted by ASW 
Group Chief Financial Officer  (or ASW Investment Committee for store 
related CapEx) 
v. ASW Group Finance will manage the submission from ASW to CKHH 
 


--- PAGE 24 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 24 of 59 
 
 
4.7 CapEx Overspend (should be STRICTLY AVOIDED) 
 
4.7.1 Policy 
 
a) All CapEx spending should be strictly within the approved amount.  Conservative 
contingencies should be built into the initial proposed amount, if necessary.  No 
spending over and above the approved levels should be committed. 
b) In the exceptional circumstance where an overspend of a CapEx project which was 
approved by CKHH arises, BU should seek CKHH’s re-approval, via ASW Group 
Finance. 
c) In the exceptional circumstance where an overspend of a CapEx project which was 
approved by ASW Investment Committee arises, the following will apply: 
i. If the overspend amount: 
▪ is less than 10% of the approved amount, AND 
▪ can be offset by net savings in other projects within the same BU and same 
CapEx category, 
Then, approval is required by BU FD and BU MD  
ii. If the overspend breaches any one of the two conditions in (i) above, then:  
▪ where the overspend amount is less than 10% of the approved amount and 
the overspend can be offset by net savings within the Division  and same 
CapEx category, Divisional FD and CEO approval is required 
▪ ASW Investment Committee approval is required for all other cases 
▪ savings in other projects or categories must be identified and committed to 
compensate for the overspend amount  
d) In the exceptional circumstance where (1) an overspend of a CapEx project which 
was approved within a BU and/or Division arises and (2) the sum of overspend 
amount and original planned amount would exceed the original approver’s limit 
(i.e. BU and/or Division), the BU and/or Division should submit the whole case of 
CapEx project for the next level’s approval (e.g. ASW Investment Committee). 
 


--- PAGE 25 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 25 of 59 
 
 
4.7.2 Procedures  
 
a) Where a CapEx project will incur overspend that breaches any one of the two 
conditions in section 4.7.1 (c)(i) or section 4.7.1(d) , the BU FD and MD must 
prepare an explanation memo as soon as the potential overspend is identified.   
b) The memo should include:  
i. Reasons for the overspend  
ii. An updated financial analysis using the latest CapEx amount  
iii. Any proposed and known area of savings that will compensate for the 
overspend amount  
iv. Outline of steps that have been taken (e.g. control process and procedural 
changes) to prevent similar overspending in the future; and  
v. In cases where the over -spend has already been committed, the manager 
concerned making the decision for the overspend and reasons for not seeking 
prior approval 
For overspends of projects previously approved by CKHH 
 
c) The memo will need to be submitted to ASW Group Finance for approval at ASW 
Investment Committee after the Division FD and CEO have reviewed and 
approved it. 
d) ASW Group Finance will manage the submission from ASW to CKHH. 
 
For overspends of projects previously approved by ASW Investment Committee  
 
e) If the overspend amount is  less than 10% of the approved amount  and the 
overspend can be offset by net savings within the Division  and same CapEx 
category, the memo only needs to be sent to Divisional FD and CEO for approval. 
f) For all other cases, the memo will need to be submitted to ASW Group Finance for 
approval at ASW Investment Committee after the Divisional FD and CEO ha ve 
reviewed and approved it. 
g) For overspends that require CKHH approval, ASW Group Finance will manage 
the submission from ASW to CKHH. 
 
  


--- PAGE 26 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 26 of 59 
 
 
For overspends of projects now requiring the next level’s approval 
 
h) The memo will need to be submitted to the next level (e.g. ASW Investment 
Committee) for approval after the original approver (BU and/or Division) have 
reviewed and approved it. 
 


--- PAGE 27 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 27 of 59 
 
 
4.8 Unspent CapEx Budget at Year End  
 
4.8.1 Policy 
 
a) There is NO CapEx carry forward allowed. 
b) At the time of the annual Budget, BUs should review status of all CapEx projects.  
For projects expected to be delayed past the year end, CapEx budget in the 
following year should be increased before Budget finalisation and approval to 
include that amount (and forecast CapEx spend for the current year should 
decrease). 
c) For CapEx items that were not foreseen to be delayed beyond year end at time of 
Budget, but due to exceptional circumstances, were unexpectedly delayed, BUs 
need to request approval from ASW Group Chief Financial Officer for an increase 
in “Additional CapEx budget” for the following year. 
d) Note that “Additional CapEx Budget” is granted only in exceptional cases.  It 
requires CKHH approval and may often not be granted.   
e) In case CKHH approval is not granted, the BU will need to absorb (i.e. find off -
setting savings for) the CapEx in the corresponding Budgeted CapEx category for 
the following year.  
 
4.8.2 Procedures  
 
     The request for approval for “Additional CapEx Budget” should be:  
 
a) Drafted by BU FD, signed by BU MD, containing a detailed list by item of those 
CapEx projects, and the reasons why the delay was not expected when Budget was 
compiled 
b) Reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures 
c) Submitted with appropriate documentation to ASW Group Finance, via the ASW 
CapEx Approval email address:  Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
d) Received by Group Finance no later than January 20th of the subsequent year  
e) Reviewed by ASW Group Finance before endorsed by ASW Group Chief 
Financial Officer 
f) ASW Group Finance will manage the submission from ASW to CKHH 


--- PAGE 28 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 28 of 59 
 
 
5. Store Closure and Store Lease Renewal 
5.1 Store Closure 
5.1.1 Policy 
 
a) All store closures will require ASW Investment Committee approval.  Closure 
should be the last resort after all other possible turnaround initiatives have been 
exhausted.  
b) Where closure costs or asset write-offs are involved, section 6 of the ASW Policy 
on Investment would apply. 
c) Closure costs (e.g. fixed assets and stock write -off, agency fee, redundancy costs) 
should only be provided for in the company’s profit and loss statement when the 
approval to close the store(s) is granted by ASW Group. 
5.1.2 Procedures 
 
a) Documentation to be prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD.  The document 
should include the following: 
i. Breakdown of the net gain or loss, which will typically include fixed asset 
write-off, stock write -off, penalty and other expenses, e.g. transaction taxes/ 
write off of tax losses, plus potentially key money receipt.   
ii. A memo explaining why closing the store is the preferred option 
iii. Expected closure date 
iv. Latest 12-month rolling SOP  
v. Projected sales uplift required to breakeven   
b) To be reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures. 
c) For proposals that require ASW and CKHH approval: 
i. Submit appropriate documentation to ASW Group Finance, via the ASW 
CapEx Approval email address:  Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
ii. ASW Group Finance to review before approval can be granted by ASW 
Investment Committee 
 


--- PAGE 29 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 29 of 59 
 
 
5.2 Store Lease Renewal 
5.2.1 Policy 
 
a) All store lease renewal requests will require ASW Investment Committee approval. 
b) For loss-making stores and stores expected to turn loss-making before the time of 
lease breaks, any decisions related to the exercise or non -exercise of lease break 
points should also be submitted to  ASW Investment Committee for 
approval.  Please ensure that such requests are submitted three months before the 
notice periods of the lease break points. 
c) Where additional CapEx is required, section 4 of the ASW Policy on Investment  
would apply. 
5.2.2 Procedures 
 
a) Documentation to be prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD.  The memo 
should outline the details and rationale for the transaction.   
b) Reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures. 
c)       Store lease renewal requests relating to sites located in Hong Kong and Macau 
should be submitted to ASW Group Finance on an individual case basis for ASW 
Investment Committee approval. 
d) Store lease renewal requests relating to sites located in markets other than Hong 
Kong and Macau should be submitted to ASW Group Finance in batches on a 
quarterly basis for ASW Investment Committee approval. 
e) For proposals that require ASW and CKHH approval: 
i. Submit appropriate documentation to ASW Group Finance, via the ASW 
CapEx Approval email address:  Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
ii. ASW Group Finance to review before approval can be granted by ASW 
Investment Committee 
f) For Hong Kong  and Macau sites, a Hutchison Property Memo stating that the 
proposed rents and rates are reasonable should be attached to the written request .  
(The memo from Hutchison Estate Agents  should be secured in advance of 
submission to Group Finance.) 
 
 


--- PAGE 30 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 30 of 59 
 
 
6. Non-current Asset Write-off / Disposal Costs  
6.1 Policy 
 
a) All write-offs or disposals of (1) real estates  (e.g. buildings, land etc)  or (2) 
intangible assets (e.g. pharmacy licences, key moneys, land use rights etc) require 
ASW Investment Committee approval. 
b) For write -offs or disposal s of non -current assets other than real estates and 
intangible assets, the level of authorisation required is dependent on the Actual Net 
Loss amount, as stated in the table below:   
Net Loss Amount Ultimate Authorisation Required 
> HK$ 1 M CKHH Group Chief Financial Officer 
(via ASW Investment Committee) 
HK$ 0.5 to  HK$ 1 M Divisional CEO and FD 
< HK$ 0.5 M Business Unit MD and FD 
Gain Business Unit MD and FD 
 
c) Net Loss is defined as proceeds of transaction (including any gains), less fixed and 
non current assets write-off, less any disposal and transaction costs, 
 
 Proceeds of Disposal  
 Less:   Write-off amount  
             Net gain / loss =  ▪ Fixed assets 
  ▪ Other non-current assets (e.g. key money) 
 Less: Disposal / Transaction costs 
 
d) Approval for Net Loss write-off must be obtained prior to actions that would cause 
the actual write -off, e.g. decisions on store closures must only be made AFTER 
write-off approval has been granted. 
e) If the actual net gain / loss amount subsequent to the approval is found to be 
materially different from the approved amount (negative variance by over 30%), a 
separate memo should be submitted to explain the variance.  If the final write -off 
amount is so much greater than the original approved amount that it would have 
required a more senior level authorisation had the full amount been known at the 
time of the proposal, then the memo must be further submitted to that more senior 
level for review and approval. 
f) Write-off / Disposal costs (e.g. fixed assets and stock write -off, agency fee, 
redundancy costs) should only be provided for in the company’s profit and loss 
statement when the approval to write-off / dispose the asset is granted. 
 
  


--- PAGE 31 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 31 of 59 
 
 
6.2 Procedures 
 
a) Documentation to be prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD.   
b) To be reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures. 
c) For proposals that require ASW and/or CKHH approval: 
i. Submit appropriate documentation to ASW Group Finance, via the ASW 
CapEx Approval email address:  Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
ii. ASW Group Finance to review before approval can be granted by ASW 
Investment Committee  
iii. ASW Group Finance will manage the submission from ASW to CKHH 
  


--- PAGE 32 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 32 of 59 
 
 
7. Business Acquisition and Disposal (incl. Equity Participation Changes) 
7.1 Policy  
 
a) All equity and joint-venture participations, investments in new activities and new 
markets, and proposals to dispose of existing activities and investments will require 
prior approval of the CKHH Group Managing Director. 
b) Similarly, any change (increase and decrease) in equity amount and equity 
participation levels in current businesses, will require prior approval of the CKHH 
Group Managing Director. 
c) All joint-venture, shareholder, franchise or other profit -sharing agreements must 
be first cleared with ASW Group Legal.  
d) All such agreements must also be first cleared with ASW Group Tax prior to ASW 
Group or CKHH approval. 
   
7.2 Procedures 
 
a) Divisional CEO to obtain in principle agreement from ASW Group CEO and notify 
ASW Group Chief Financial Officer. 
b) Divisional CEO to engage relevant support (e.g. financial modelling, contractual 
negotiations and corporate structuring) and signoff from ASW Group Finance, 
Group Legal and Group Tax.  
c) Divisional CEO to prepare official presentation to ASW Group CEO and ASW 
Group Chief Financial Officer, addressing the following: 
i. Investment rationale 
ii. Business plan and strategy 
iii. Financial valuation, with modelling assumptions (including any significant tax 
considerations and assumptions if any). Supporting market benchmarks where 
appropriate 
iv. Proposed transaction execution team and transaction timeline 
v. Management team structure and phased organisation support  
d) If ASW approval is given to approach CKHH for approval, then Divisional CEO 
and FD prepare memo to CKHH requesting approval, in line with supporting 
financials and standard PIP documentation. 
e) ASW Group Head Office will coordinate presentation to CKHH, with presentation 
from Divisional team, where appropriate. 
f) For subsequent cash settlement for approved projects, please refer to the ASW 
Group Treasury Policies and Procedures. 
 


--- PAGE 33 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 33 of 59 
 
 
8. Significant Expenditures 
8.1 Definition - Commitments 
 
a) Commitments are contracts which bind business units  to (1) a minimum order 
quantity or minimum financial obligations, (2) exclusivity clauses in favour of the 
contracted vendor’s services or products, or (3) both.  Typical examples are 
warehouse leases, office le ases, car rental contracts that  restrict the Group to 
renting only the contracted lessor’s cars and logistics contracts that disallow the 
Group to procure logistical services from other vendors. 
b) For any non-trade-related Commitments (exclude trade-related commitments like 
trade suppliers; but include non-store lease contracts, master lease agreements for 
company cars  and non -trade-related list of rates or prices with some form of 
commitment), the following authorisation is required: 
Commitment Amount 
(Small BUs) Ultimate Authorisation Required 
≥ HK$ 3 M ASW Investment Committee 
HK$ 1 to < HK$ 3 M Divisional CEO and FD 
< HK$ 1 M Business Unit MD and FD 
 
Commitment Amount 
(Big BUs) Ultimate Authorisation Required 
≥ HK$ 5 M ASW Investment Committee 
HK$ 3 to < HK$ 5 M Divisional CEO and FD 
< HK$ 3 M Business Unit MD and FD 
 
 Remarks: For definition of Small BUs and Big BUs, please refer to Retail 
Operating Standards. 
 
c) For non-trade-related list of rates or prices with some form of commitment, the 
commitment amount should be estimated with the estimated volume during the 
expected contract period. 
d) In addition to the criteria above, property related transactions in Hong Kong , 
Macau and China require the approval of ASW Investment Committee, via ASW 
Group Finance (please refer to section 10). 
e) Commitment amount is calculated as the sum of cash outflows over the whole life 
of the contract, regardless of any break clause, e.g. for a new warehouse, the total 
commitment amount includes the CapEx, rent and rates and related operating cash 
costs over the lease period.   
  


--- PAGE 34 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 34 of 59 
 
 
8.2 Definition – Rate Cards 
a) Rate Cards are pre-agreed lists of rates or prices , between vendors and business 
units as paying clients or customers, against products or services to be acquired , 
with no C ommitments attached.  Any other agreements not fulfilling the above 
definition of Rate Cards are deemed Commitments and should follow the 
authorisation limits stated in section 8.1. 
b) A typical example of Rate Cards is a list of prices of different grades or brands of 
floor tiles, which (1)  do not bind the Group to a minimum order quantity, and (2) 
do not restrict the Group to buying exclusively only from the contracted vendor. 
c) The level of authorisation required is stated in the table below.  
Estimated Contract 
Amount 
Ultimate Authorisation Required 
Where the lowest cost 
bidder is proposed 
Where the lowest cost 
bidder is NOT proposed 
≥ HK$ 10 M ASW Investment 
Committee 
ASW Investment 
Committee 
HK$ 5 to < HK$ 10 M ASW Group Chief 
Financial Officer 
ASW Investment 
Committee 
< HK$ 5 M Business Unit MD and FD Business Unit MD and FD 
 
 
8.3 Group IT and Group IB’s Authorisation 
a) The level of authorisation required for Group IT Project s is stated in the table 
below. 
Estimated Contract 
Amount 
Ultimate Authorisation Required 
Budgeted Group IT 
Projects 
Unbudgeted Group IT 
Projects 
≥ HK$ 5 M ASW Investment 
Committee 
ASW Investment 
Committee 
HK$ 1 to < HK$ 5 M ASW Group Chief 
Financial Officer 
ASW Investment 
Committee 
< HK$ 1 M ASW Group Retail 
Technology Director 
ASW Group Retail 
Technology Director 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 35 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 35 of 59 
 
 
b) The level of authorisation required for Group IB Rate Cards is stated in the table 
below. 
Estimated Contract 
Amount Ultimate Authorisation Required 
≥ HK$ 10 M ASW Investment Committee 
< HK$ 10 M International Buying (“IB”) 
 
c) Where Business Units only sign contracts with the chosen vendors under master 
contracts and cost schedules according to duly -approved Group IB Rate Cards , 
there is no need for further approvals by ASW GPS or Investment Committee. 
 
8.4 Policy 
a) All requests for approval should be made via a memo to the ASW Group Chief 
Financial Officer, outlining the details and rationale for the transaction. 
b) All requests for ASW Investment Committee’s approval must be first cleared with 
the relevant Group Function before reaching ASW Group Chief Financial Officer.  
For instance, IT expenditure requests requiring ASW Investment Committee’s 
approval must be first cleared with Group Retail Technology Director  before 
reaching ASW Group Chief Financial Officer. 
c) All contracts must be first cleared with ASW Group Legal in accordance with the 
current applicable version of the ASW Group Legal Policy.  
d) All contracts (exclude trade related contracts like trade suppliers) must be cleared 
with ASW Group Tax in accordance with the current applicable version of the 
ASW Group Tax Policy & Procedures. 
e) All non -trade procurement tender and non -IB submitted services tender 
applications that require ASW Investment Committee approval will require 
clearance from the ASW Group Procurement Services (“GPS”) of Group 
International Buying. 
f) All master lease agreements for company cars must be first cleared with ASW 
Group Human Resources in accordance with the current applicable version of the 
ASW Group Human Resources Policy. 
g) All construction projects have to be approved by the CKHH Directors Executive 
Committee and are reviewed regularly. 
 
8.5  Procedure 
 
a) Documentation to be prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD 
b) To be reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures 


--- PAGE 36 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 36 of 59 
 
 
i. For proposals that require ASW and/or CKHH approval: Submit all relevant 
documentation to ASW Group Finance, via the ASW CapEx Approval email 
address:  Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
ii. ASW Group Finance to review before approval can be granted by ASW 
Investment Committee 
iii. ASW Group Finance will manage the submission from ASW to CKHH 
  


--- PAGE 37 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 37 of 59 
 
 
9. Engagement of Third Party Representatives 
9.1 Policy  
   
a) Before procuring and renewing the services of any external consultancy firm, the 
following authorisation is required. 
Type Commitment 
Amount Ultimate Authorisation Required 
Lobbyists and 
Advisors All CKHH Group Co-Managing Director 
Management 
Consultants 
≥ HK$ 5 M ASW Investment Committee  
HK$ 1 to < HK$ 
5 M 
ASW Group CEO and  
ASW Group Chief Financial Officer 
 HK$ 1 M 
Business Unit MD and FD 
(Subject to authorisations set by Divisional 
Teams) 
Celebrities 
≥ HK$ 1 M ASW Investment Committee  
 HK$ 1 M 
Business Unit MD and FD 
(Subject to authorisations set by Divisional 
Teams) 
 
b) Commitment amount is calculated as the sum of cash outflows over the entire life 
of the contract, regardless of any break clause.   
c) Management consultancy firms include McKinsey and Co., etc.  
d) Celebrities include third party spokespersons, KOLs, Bloggers, Vloggers and the 
like. 
e) Advertising and Marketing consultants and agencies include store design agencies, 
advertising agencies, PR agencies, media agencies, social listening companies and 
market research companies.  Their levels of authorisation follow section 8  
Significant Expenditures. 
f) All requests for CKHH and ASW Group approval should be made via a memo 
outlining the scope, principles, details and rationale for hiring an external 
consultant instead of using internal resource. The memo should also describe the 
criteria and selection / tender process adopted. 
g) All contracts which require ASW or CKHH Group approval must be cleared with 
ASW Group Legal. All other contracts must also be first cleared with ASW Group 
Legal in accordance with the current applicable version of the ASW Group Legal 
Policy.  
h) Excluded from the scope of this Policy are: 
i. Audit, audit-related and taxation advisory services 
ii. Legal services 


--- PAGE 38 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 38 of 59 
 
 
iii. Engagement related to implementation of approved IT systems 
iv. Recruitment agencies and training or development agencies or consultants 
v. All temporary staff hired for existing vacancies or special events (e.g. 
promotion activities) 
9.2 Procedure 
 
a) BU FD and MD to prepare a proposal outlining the rationale for the engagement: 
i. Commercial background and reasons for the initiative 
ii. Reasons for requiring external consultants, instead of using internal resources 
iii. Financial justification, with supporting benchmarks where appropriate 
iv. Any alternative consultants considered and evaluation against key selection 
criteria 
b) To be reviewed and endorsed by Divisional CEO and FD via signatures, as required 
c) Where approval is required from CKHH and ASW Group, please submit the 
proposal and any supporting documentation to ASW Group Finance for review. 
d) For proposals that require CKHH approval for Lobbyists or Advisors, BU should 
submit together with other documentation, the “ CKHH Group – Third Party 
Representatives” (see Appendix XI).  ASW Group Finance will manage the 
submission from ASW to CKHH. 
  


--- PAGE 39 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 39 of 59 
 
 
10. Property Related Transactions in Hong Kong, Macau and China 
10.1 Policy  
 
a) Property related transactions in Hong Kong , Macau and China (including new / 
lease renewal of warehouse and new / lease renewal of office space) meeting both 
of the following criteria will require a formal written request for approval to ASW 
Investment Committee.  The two criteria are:  
• Lease period over 6 months 
• Financial commitment of over HK$ 500k  
b) The policy applies whether we directly buy/ rent OR cause a third party (e.g. third 
party logistics provider) to buy / rent such properties.   
c) Commitment amount is calculated as the sum of cash outflows over the whole life 
of the contract, regardless of any break clause, e.g. for a new warehouse, the total 
commitment amount includes the CapEx, rent and rates and related operating cash 
costs over the lease period.   
d) Specifically, for property related transactions in Hong Kong and Macau, Hutchison 
Property Memo must be obtained before approval can be granted from the ASW 
or CKHH Group Chief Financial Officer but can be exempted if the landlord of the 
property is a subsidiary, JCE or associate of Cheung Kong Property Holdings.  
e) Property transactions with zero financial commitment are exempt from this policy. 
 
10.2   Procedure 
 
a) Request to be prepared by BU FD and signed by BU MD 
b) A Hutchison Property Memo stating that the proposed rents and rates are 
reasonable should be attached to the written request  (The memo from Hutchison 
Estate Agents should be secured in advance of submission to Group Finance) 
c) Obtain appropriate signatures of Divisional CEO and FD 
d) Submit appropriate documentation to ASW Group Finance, via the ASW CapEx 
Approval email address:  Capexapproval@aswatson.com 
e) ASW Group Finance to review before approval can be granted by ASW Investment 
Committee 
f) Where approval for a proposal is required from CKHH, ASW Group Finance will 
manage the submission from ASW to CKHH 
 
 
11. Charitable Donations & Sponsorships and Contributions to Political Associations 
11.1 Policy 
 


--- PAGE 40 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 40 of 59 
 
 
In a Group with the size of CKHH, it is not uncommon for several of our companies to 
receive appeals from the same charities and other causes.  To avoid duplication, CKHH 
requires its subsidiaries to obtain approval from Head Office on ALL cash donations and 
sponsorships. For in -kind sponsorships or projects involving customer/supplier 
donations, although the donation form does not need to go through CKHH approval, 
subsidiaries should still fill in the donation form and keep ASW GPR informed.  
For details, please refer to section 7.1 of the current applicable version of ASW Group 
Public Relations & Public Engagement Policy and Procedures. 
11.2 Procedures 
 
a) Donation and Sponsorship 
  



--- PAGE 41 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 41 of 59 
 
 
b) Charitable Advertising  
• Charitable advertising is at the discretion of each member company, except for 
Hong Kong where in general will be undertaken at the CKHH corporate level, 
hence should be submitted to CKHH via Group PR. 
For Hong Kong BUs only:  
 
• Please pay special attention to donations linked to the Hong Kong Community 
Chest. Since Cheung Kong Holdings is a major corporate donor to the 
Community Chest as a group, they would like to be consulted for any charity 
activities linked to the Chest. Plea se obtain approval from CKHH-GCA via 
ASW GPR. 
c) Contributions to Politicians / Political Associations  
• It is the Group’s policy NOT TO  make any form of donation to political 
associations or individual politicians.  If any requests are made for political 
contributions by the Group, these should be referred to CKHH-GCA via ASW 
GPR. 
 
  


--- PAGE 42 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 42 of 59 
 
 
12. Store Investment Cycle 
 
   



--- PAGE 43 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 43 of 59 
 
 
13. Finance Authorisation / Approval Map 
 
The maps below summarise the Authorisation Process 
 
 
  



--- PAGE 44 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 44 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 45 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 45 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   



--- PAGE 46 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 46 of 59 
 
 
14. Reporting 
 
The following reports are required to be submitted to ASW Group Finance 
 
14.1 Routine Reports 
 
a) Monthly CapEx Report  (see Appendix V) 
• Report on CapEx usage to-date and forecast for remaining year 
b) New Stores & Store Refit Performance Tracking (see Appendix VI) 
• Monthly performance report on new stores and store refit of or over HK$ 500k (or 
belonging to a Major Refit Programme or Other Store Refits) 
• Some of the key metrics tracked include CapEx, sales, and SOP.  The actual 
performance is tracked against the Financial Proposal and “Before Refit” (in the 
case of store refit) 
• Excel template and summary slide to be submitted to Group Finance on a monthly 
basis.   
c) Store Strategies   
• Annual report on New Store Opening Strategies, to be submitted by end of first 
half and before budget process begins (see Appendix VII) 
• Major Refit Programme Strategies, required from selected business units that have 
major refit programmes.  BUs will be notified separately (see Appendix VIII) 
d) Value Engineering Report (see Appendix IX) 
• Monthly report on New Stor e CapEx, to be compared against Value Engineering 
Targets 
 
14.2 Reporting Timetable  
 
 See ASW Group Financial Reporting Timetable published each year 


--- PAGE 47 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 47 of 59 
 
 
Appendix I – ASW Group Standard Financial Model 
Example: New Store Model 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample screenshots   



--- PAGE 48 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 48 of 59 
 
 
Appendix II – CapEx Control Sheet 
Example 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 49 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 49 of 59 
 
 
Appendix III – Hutchison Property Memo 
Example 
 



--- PAGE 50 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 50 of 59 
 
 
Appendix IV – ASK Paper 
 
  
Date  : DD MMM YYYY 
Subject  : Summary Description 
Author  : Name 
 
Paper Objective 
▪ 1-2 bullet points that articulate objective 
▪ Expenditure ask should be shown here 
▪ State budget condition here (in budget, not in budget – plus which line) 
▪ State expected timing 
 
1. Why you need to know this information? 
▪ Set background/context of paper 
 
2. What we’ve found 
General Findings 
▪ Explain findings 
▪  
Group IT Implications 
▪ State whether Group IT help is required for ongoing development, integration, maintenance, support, or 
other. 
▪ State whether any deviation with existing GIT strategies or standards 
▪ Consider whether the proposed solution (or similar) exists in any of the other BUs and whether it could be 
reused 
 
3. What are we planning to do next? 
▪ Explain action plan that addresses implications in findings 
▪ Include: 
a) Options, Benefits, Concerns and Recommendations to justify action plan 
b) Commencement, completion date and project duration 
c) Project timeline and schedule details 
d) Resource and support requirement 
 
4. Financial Implications 
▪ Provide some financial metrics here – state: 
a) 5 year CapEx 
b) 5 year OpEx (which P&L will it impact?) 
c) 5 year Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) 
 
5. What we need from you today 
▪ Seek approval to proceed with recommendation, action plan and expenditure 
This paper to be used for IT initiatives less than HKD 1million 
Sample page only; For detailed 
templates, please contact Group IT 


--- PAGE 51 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 51 of 59 
 
 
Appendix V – Monthly CapEx Report 
 
 
  



--- PAGE 52 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 52 of 59 
 
 
Appendix VI – New Store / Store Refit Performance Tracking 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 53 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 53 of 59 
 
 
Appendix VII – New Stores Strategy 
 
 
 
BU
Lccy
As at Mar 2015
I. Existing Formats
Format Target Customer Type Location Type Typical Size 
(sqft) # of Stores ATV 
(Lccy)
Net Area Beauty Skincare Health
Personal 
Care Baby
House-
hold GM
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
20
7
II. New Formats
Format Target Customer Type Location Type Typical Size 
(sqft) # of Stores ATV 
(Lccy)
Net Area Beauty Skincare Health
Personal 
Care Baby
House-
hold GM
8
9
10
(A) Store Format Explanation / Description
Category Participation Difference
Category Participation Difference


--- PAGE 54 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 54 of 59 
 
 
 
Country Map
Area Map - Potential site
E
B
HC
B
D
G
EE
E
E
2 km catchment


--- PAGE 55 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 55 of 59 
 
 
Appendix VIII – Major Refit Programme Strategy 
 
 
 
 
  
   
1
Major Refit Program Strategy – Guidelines
• Explanation of what is driving the request for refits (e.g. 10% of stores have not 
been refit in past 6 years or offer is being repositioned)
• Overview of current store portfolio / format performance (if necessary) 
• Refer to tab “Comparables” in Reference Excel workbook
Overview
Timelines • Rollout timelines by month and by location
• Make note of any local authorization required timelines (e.g. licenses)
• Criteria used to select the “candidate” stores, for example: 
– Strategic site with nearby competition and no recent refit 
– Refit older than 6 years and high Sales & SOP but low SOP%
• Refer to “SelectionCriteria” tab in Reference Excel workbook
Selection 
Criteria
• Expected investment returns
• Overall assumptions used across the refit submissions, for example:
– Refit capex compared to VE targets,
– Sales uplifts and margin improvements, 
– Refit / disruption period (stores closed or partially opened?),
– Inflation factors on cost base,
– Change in sales mix, offer range etc…
• Refer to “Assumptions” tab in Reference Excel workbook
Financial 
Summary
Suggested topics for the 
Refit Program Strategy
2
Major Refit Program Strategy – Guidelines
• Financial performance of any trial stores
– versus “before refit”
– versus expectation or IRR submission
• Customer feedback
• Key learning and implication for the roll-out program
Trial 
Performance
(If any)
Summary by 
Store
• Key statistics by store
• Refer to “Summary” tab in Reference Excel workbook
• Key contact names, emails and phone numbers, including second-in-charge for 
Operations and Finance teamsProject Team
Backup • Any photos, floor plans, and additional information
Suggested topics for the 
Refit Program Strategy


--- PAGE 56 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 56 of 59 
 
 
Appendix IX – Value Engineering Report 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 57 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 57 of 59 
 
 
Appendix X – CKHH Group Car Purchase Requisition Form 
 



--- PAGE 58 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 58 of 59 
 
 
Appendix XI – CKHH Group Third Party Representatives  
Requisition Form 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 59 ---
 
 
Policy on Investment 
 
  
Policy No: GFN005 Version No: 10.0 Last Update: June 2025 Policy Owner: Scott Blakemore 
 
Page 59 of 59 
 
 
 
 
