

--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
1 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Trade Procurement Guideline 
 
By Non-Trade Procurement 
 
Revised in Jan 2024 (Version 9) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
2 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
Table of Content 
1.0 Overview………………………………………………………………………..………………………………….4 
2.0 Spending Groups, Type of Purchase and Non Trade Procurement Scope…………….5 
2.0.1 Spending groups………………………………………………………………………………………………5 
2.0.2 Type of purchase……………………………………………………………………………………………..5 
2.0.3 Non-Trade Procurement Scope………………………………………………………………………..6 
3.0 Overview on Non Trade Procurement Process (Appendix 1)……………………………….6 
4.0 General Instruction of Non Trade Procurement Process……………………………………..6 
4.1 Supplier Pre-evaluation and Approved Supplier List (ASL)…………………………………..6 
4.2 Purchase Requisition and Purchase Requisition Form (PR Form)………………………..9 
4.3 Capex Request Form (Appendix 2)…………………………………………………………………...10 
4.4 Urgent Purchase……………………………………………………………………………………………… 10 
4.5 Request for Quotes/Request for Proposal…………………………………..…………………...10 
4.6 Competitive Tendering Process…………………………………………………………………………12 
4.6.1Tender Committee and Its Responsibility………………………………………………………..12 
4.6.2Tender Procedure and Open Tender Report……………………………………………………13 
4.7 Sourcing Report and Scoring Mechanism….………………………………………………………17 
4.8 Exception Report………………………………………………………………………………………………19 
4.9 Changes on Tender/Quotation …………………………………………………………………………19 
4.10 Retaining Purchasing Data………………………………………………………………………………20 
4.11 Purchase Order (PO) …….………………………………………………………………………………..20 
4.12 Contract Conception, Review and Approval………………………………….………………..21 
4.13 Purchase Order Variation………………………………………………………………………………..23 
4.14 Goods Receipt………………………………………………………………………………………………..24 
4.15 Payment Request……………………………………………………………………………………………25 
4.16 Supplier Performance Evaluation……………………………………………………………………25 
4.16.1 Annual Review of supplier Performance………………………………………………………26 
4.16.2 Failure in Supplier Performance Appraisal……………………………………………………26 
4.17 Other Situations.…………………………………………………………………………………………….27 
4.18 Quality Control……………………………………………………………………………………………….27 
4.19 Process Flowcharts (Appendix 5)……………………………………………………..…..………..28 
4.20 Purchase-related Forms (Appendix 6)…………………………………….…………………..….28  
5.0 Integrity……………………………………………………………………………………………………………28 
6.0 Re-approval diagrams……………………………………………………………….………………………29 
6.1 Rate-Card Opex Overspends……………………………………………………..………………………29 
6.2 Commitment Opex Overspends…………………………………………..……………………………30 
6.3 Capex Overspends……………………………………………………………………………………………31 


--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
3 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
Appendix………………………………………………………………………………………………..32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
4 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
1.0 Overview  
 
The purpose of this policy is to provide user departments with guidelines on the necessary 
Non Trade Procurement procedures we should follow, to ensure that A.S. Watson Group 
(“ASW Group”) will get the most favorable trading terms and services for corporate and 
obtain the most value and benefits from our suppliers.  The core aspect of this policy is to 
centralize all non-trade purchasing activities at Watsons Taiwan and all stores island wide in 
order to realize the potential savings and create more synergy effects referring to costs and 
quality of products and services.  
 
Non Trade Procurement shall satisfy internal customers with good products, service quality, 
and competitive price as well as on-time delivery. In addition, it is necessary to assure all 
purchasing activities are transparent and provide internal customers relevant information 
regarding supplier market, products and services.   
 
Each branch office in the group should develop policies as to the size of the purchase above 
which tendering should be carried out.  For purchases exceeding this limit, suppliers 
should be selected on the basis of competitive tendering including the impartial selection 
of appropriately qualified suppliers.  Whenever competitive tendering above the size 
thresholds is not carried out a file note explaining why such tendering was not done should 
be produced and kept on the purchasing file.  Additionally, re-tendering should in general 
take place at least every three years.  Monitoring systems should be put in place to ensure 
the proper fulfillment of contractual obligations and to provide reasonable assurance that 
fraudulent or corrupt activities are prevented.  Suppliers should make a statement before 
making transactions with Watsons Taiwan that no personal benefit accrues to Watsons 
personnel from this business arrangement and that they have complied with all legal 
requirements.  
 
A transparent procurement process means that usually at least three suppliers submit their 
quotations based on pre-defined specifications and requirements by the deadline.  Non 


--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
5 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
Trade Procurement will then verify and compare quotations or proposals in terms of price, 
delivery, suppliers’ expertise and service quality to conduct the supplier assessment.  All 
supporting document should be available for each purchasing activity for a transparent 
procurement process.  
 
A centralized Non Trade Procurement function helps user departments not only realize 
potential cost savings but also create a good approach to supplier market, develop good 
supplier relationship and evaluate suppliers’ performance for creating more tangible or 
intangible benefits.  Furthermore, Non Trade Procurement helps develop integrated 
procurement strategies for an efficient buying at Watsons Taiwan.  
 
2.0 Spending Groups, Type of Purchase and Non Trade Procurement Scope 
 
2.0.1 Spending groups 
 
The spending can be divided into two groups according to spending nature:  
- Fixed Assets / Capex: For example, equipment, system, IT hardware, machinery, etc 
- Expense:  
 Diverse production/single items: commodities with physical character, 
e.g. printing material, POP , etc. 
 Diverse services: non-material items such as consulting, IT-solution, 
advertising agency, PR agency, repair and maintenance, logistic 
services are some examples. 
 
2.0.2 Type of purchase 
      There are two forms of purchase as follows:   
 Time purchase: Prices for products or services were negotiated with 
suppliers previously, such as contract-based purchasing, stationary, 
regular agency retainer fee, carrier bags, uniforms, etc.  Some 
services or commodities (regular consumables) belong to blanket 
order purchase and on contract base. 


--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
6 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
 
 Spot buy/ad-hoc: There is no framework contract to be used for spot 
buy.  Usually one-time purchase without continuous or regular 
demand is classified to spot buy.  
 
2.0.3 Non-Trade Procurement Scope:    
 
Negative List: 
 
 The following expenses will be out of scope of Non Trade Procurement:  
 
- Rental for stores, housing for expatriates, commissions for estate agencies and employment 
agency service for office/DC employees, etc.  
- Utility such as electricity and water, and state-owned suppliers 
- Employee expense 
- Government fee, tax, penalty, administration cost for office, garage, shared public facility cost 
- Membership fee 
- Trading commodities (buy-in and sell-out) 
- Bank-related surcharge, e.g. charge for remittance, guarantee fee, interest expense 
- Legal fee, auditing fee, back-end income recovery service fee, insurance fee subject to 
group-related functions review and approval             
- Store payout and expense pay-on-behalf for trade supplier 
 
Non Trade Procurement shall get involved all other expenses which are out of the negative list 
above.  Furthermore, Non Trade Procurement shall get involved in the purchase for GWP no 
matter it belongs to COGS (Cost of Goods Sold) or Advertising & Promotion (A&P), if the GWP is 
not bought from International Buying.    
 
3.0 Overview on Non Trade Procurement Process (see Appendix 1)  
4.0 General Instruction of Non Trade Procurement Process 
4.1 Supplier Pre-evaluation and Approved Supplier List (ASL):  


--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
7 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
 
This practice ensures that only reliable suppliers are used and minimizes the overhead costs 
and time required for surveying suppliers.  Suppliers on the list shall be invited to bid based 
on a fair share principle.  All group appointed suppliers and IB suppliers will be 
automatically established in the ASL.  However, user department shall provide sufficient 
supporting for IB/Group appointed suppliers, such as contract, confirmation letter and 
notice, etc. with necessary information in terms of commodity, services, contractual prices, 
delivery lead time, contract period etc.  
 
No matter how much the total purchase amount is, each user department can ONLY work 
with suppliers who are approved and maintained on the Approved Supplier List (ASL).  If it 
is necessary to work with a new and potential supplier, a supplier pre-evaluation process 
executed by Non Trade Procurement is mandatory.  For efficiency, the supplier 
pre-evaluation process can be executed in phone or face-to-face interview with suppliers.   
During the interview with suppliers, Non-Trade Procurement buyers shall understand 
suppliers’ basic profile, expertise, and current customer database, etc.  The interview must 
be kept in record by buyers instead of filling the Supplier Profile Form out if needed.  After 
the pre-evaluation process, buyers can invite the new and potential suppliers to join 
quotation process.   Before issuing purchase orders or signing contract to new suppliers, 
suppliers MUST submit the Supplier Profile Form and banking information with necessary 
chops in order to enter the ASL.  Please note that all new suppliers must be on ASL prior to 
conduct tendering process.  Only interview process for supplier pre-evaluation is NOT 
allowed for tendering process.   
 
Some necessary document below must be submitted by suppliers if they would like to be on 
the ASL:  
 Photocopy of Business Licence  
 Completed Watsons Taiwan Supplier Profile Form  
 Photocopy of banking account information  


--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
8 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
 
   Non Trade Procurement shall evaluate new suppliers according to the following criterion:  
- Suppliers who intend to cooperate with Watsons Taiwan must have registered legal form 
in accordance with Company Act, Taiwan, ROC.  
- Professional know-how, product and service quality 
 
      All Non Trade Procurement team members and user department related employees must 
declare in writing if there is any own family member or close relative who joins quotation 
or tender process in compliance with Corporate Policy.  The declaration must be approved 
in writing by the Department Head and People Director.  A close relative is considered as 
any of the followings:  
- Spouse (or co-habiting partner) 
- Children 
- Parents 
- Brothers or sisters 
- Grandparents 
- Grandchildren 
- Uncle or aunt 
- Nephew or niece 
- Parents-in-law 
- Brothers or sisters-in-law 
 
      Moreover, if suppliers are family members or close relatives of Watsons Taiwan employees  
who represent user department, Non Trade Procurement or one member of tendering 
committee, employees cannot get involved in defining specifications, bidding process and 
supplier evaluation.  
 
      The Supplier Profile Form has to be signed and approved by Non Trade Procurement 
Section Head.  The admission to or deletion from the Approved Supplier List should be 


--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
9 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
approved by Non Trade Procurement Section Head and Finance Director. 
 
The ASL should be updated at least once every two years and submitted to Finance Director 
for review and approval.  Non-trade Procurement buyers shall justify if these suppliers are 
valuable for staying in the supplier pool.  The revised ASL should then be announced by 
Non Trade Procurement team on the Watsons Taiwan Portal.   
         
4.2 Purchase Requisition and Purchase Requisition Form (PR Form):  
 
 User department should submit a Purchase Requisition Form (PR Form) in Oracle      
 Purchasing System, if the purchase item is NOT on Negative List.  For the same purchase 
 item, it is not allowed to split up in small batches.  Additionally, it is not allowed to ignore   
 normal procedures when making purchases and always carrying out urgent purchases to   
 circumvent normal procedures.  
 
 In addition, the estimated budget must be provided on the Purchase Requisition Form for                
 Non Trade Procurement’s information and further quotation/tendering process.  The   
 estimated budget can be allocated by using previous purchase amount or user department    
 can execute an initial price survey on markets.  
     
 The Purchase Requisition Form is NOT necessary to be submitted for the following items:  
    
- Items on the Negative List  
- Total purchase amount is less or equal to NT$100,000 at one time.  However, a 
split order is NOT allowed. Although Non Trade Procurement do not get involved in 
the purchase when the total amount is less or equal to NT$100,000, the supplier 
must be selected from the Approved Supplier List (ASL).  If the assigned supplier is 
not on the ASL, user department has to raise a request by submitting Supplier 
Profile Form to Non Trade Procurement for surveying the new supplier.   
 


--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
10 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
4.3 Capex Request Form (Appendix 2):  
 If the purchase belongs to Capex/Fixed Asset, the Capex Request Form has to be approved 
by Management first before processing an Oracle PO.  The approved capex request form 
should be attached to the Oracle PO as a supporting document.   
 
4.4 Urgent Purchase  
 
The urgent purchase is defined that there is a negative impact on the operation of stores or 
offices without immediately handling the purchase.  For instance, the air-con is out of 
order or the rolling shelter cannot be automatically opened or closed.  All urgent purchases 
have to be defined with the check points and factors below:  
- To avoid negative impact or serious damage 
- To keep consumer safety 
- To keep store or office operation 
- Equipment must be replaced or changed within three days for keeping store/office 
operation or consumer safety 
     However, suppliers must be selected ONLY from the ASL (Approved Supplier List) and the 
purchase amount must NOT exceed HK$ 50,000.  Moreover, user departments have to 
provide supporting document and submit PR form for Non Trade Procurement’s further 
review and Purchase Order process.  For urgent purchase, executing sourcing activity is not 
mandatory for Non Trade Procurement.  The reason for urgent purchase must be clearly 
described and explained on the PR form with supporting if needed.   
 
4.5 Request for Quotes / Request for Proposal  
 
  Non Trade Procurement shall conduct sourcing activity if the purchase amount exceeds 
NT$100,000.  Based on pre-defined specifications and relevant information from user 
department, Non Trade Procurement will conduct a sourcing activity and invite at least 
three potential suppliers to join the briefing meeting or send Request for Quote (RFQ) or 
Request for Proposal (RFP) to suppliers if the estimated budget/purchase amount between 
NT$100,001 and HK$3M.  A tendering must be executed, if the estimated 


--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
11 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
budget/purchase amount exceeds HK$3M.  At least five quotations have to be acquired 
from at least five competing suppliers.  Quotes or proposals shall be submitted by 
suppliers directly to Non Trade Procurement by the quote submission deadline.  The 
required procedures are needed to follow depending on the value of individual contract or 
purchase amount:  
Estimated budget/ 
Previous Spending Quotation Process Tendering Process 
> NT$100,000 and  
< = HK$3M 
At least 3 quotes from 
3 competing suppliers -  
> HK$3M above -  At least 5 sealed bids from 
5 competing suppliers 
Remarks:  Quotations obtained from the suppliers must be in writing and they must be 
current, i.e. prices quoted are within four months from the date the decision to purchase is 
made.      
 
The “significant Expenditures” and “Engagement of Third Party Representatives” may be 
required to be approved by the Divisional Management, ASW or HWL Group Office in with 
the requirements stipulated in Section 8 and 9 of the ASW Group Policy on Investment.   
 
 With regards to sale of used fixtures, furniture, equipment, and all other hardware, Non 
Trade Procurement shall acquire minimum two quotations for selling price comparison.  
 
 Suppliers, who join the sourcing no matter for a quotation process or a tendering, must be 
independent from other suppliers and do not have any shareholding relationship.   
 
4.6 Competitive Tendering process 
      
      If pre-defined budget, estimated purchase amount or the previous purchase amount is 
HK$3M above, a complete tendering process must be conducted.  According to the 
current Group Policy for Non-trade Procurement, a tender must be re-executed at least 


--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
12 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
every three years. 
 
      There should be adequate control and security measures to ensure the tender process is 
fair and competitive.  To enhance fair competition, important tender information such as 
the marking scheme for tender evaluation, decisive factors for the award of the contract, 
any revision of tender requirements etc. should be made known to all bidders.  Where 
briefing sessions or site visits are organized, all bidders should be invited to attend.   
  
4.6.1 Tender Committee and Its Responsibility 
 
      In a competitive tendering, it is advisable to form a panel comprising staffs with expertise, 
user department and other related department to vet and approve the tender 
specifications and evaluation criterion as well as its weightage before issue.  The panel 
shall be comprised of Finance Director (or senior competent delegates), Head of User 
Department and Non Trade Procurement Section Head as well as other Department Heads 
who have to be concurred.  Head of User Department must execute the supplier 
assessment and no delegation is allowed.   
 
      Tender committee members and the tender project manager must fill in a Conflict of 
Interest Declaration regardless of the existence of conflicts. In case there are any conflict(s) 
that can potentially affect the tender results, written approval with documented 
justifications must be obtained from the BU’s GM (Group FD or Group Department Head if 
the concerned party is the BU’s GM or Group Functions respectively) before the tender 
opening if they continue to play any role in the supplier evaluation and selection process.  
 
      All panel members must approve the tendering scope and evaluation criterion, weightage 
on the pre-tendering summary as well as quote/proposal review and supplier assessment 
with a sign-off process.  In addition, the panel must approve the tenderers who shall be 
invited to join the competitive tendering before Non Trade Procurement sending out the 
RFQ/RFP .  For tendering projects led or conducted by Group Functions, the final tender 


--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
13 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
results should be approved by the tender committee which is composed of the Head of 
GPS, the relevant Group Functional Heads and the relevant BU Heads of User Department.  
     
4.6.2 Tender Procedure and Open Tender Report 
 
      In general, there will be at least 5 potential tenderers who join the tendering.  When 
prospective suppliers withdraw from the bidding without giving Watsons Taiwan a written 
notice, Non Trade Procurement team is required to inform the suppliers in writing that no 
tendering documents have been received.  In situations where the required number of 
quotations or tenders cannot be obtained (regardless of number of prosperous suppliers 
invited), the justification must be documented and the exception has to be approved by 
both BU’s GM and FD.  Non Trade Procurement will survey the other potential suppliers 
under consideration of timeliness, supplier qualification and complexity.   
 
Having good justifications for not obtaining enough quotes or tenders documented for 
transparency purpose is important, otherwise the exception approvals obtained from BU’s 
GM and FD alone would not be good enough. The below sets out the recommended 
directions for good “justification(s)”:  
Direction Explanation 
Compatibility with 
products/services under 
existing contract 
The subject being purchased needs to be compatible 
with existing items/services in use, with adequate 
explanation on why compatibility is necessary. 
Uniqueness 
The feature(s) that make a product/service unique 
with adequate explanation on why such uniqueness is 
important to the business.  
Timeframe 
When there is an urgent need for a product/service 
and there is a limited number of known sources that 
can fulfill the business needs within the allowable 
timeframe. 


--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
14 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
 
In extreme cases where there is only 1 single prospective supplier such that competitive 
bidding is not feasible, there should still be alternative means (e.g., benchmark of market 
price) to assure that the supplier’s offer is reasonable whenever possible. 
 
Investment Committee’s approval does not replace nor supersede the above sign-off 
requirements. Quotations and tenders should still be obtained as per 4.5 above. This 
principle is also applicable to subsequent Variation Orders (as stipulated in 4.13). 
 
Where termination notice is required contractually with an existing supplier, it is crucial for 
BUs to inform the existing supplier upfront prior to the start of the tendering process 
(which can be started months before the official termination notice period).  
 
Non-disclosure Agreement (using the latest template from Group Legal) should be signed 
by all prospective suppliers before tendering process.  However, based on the current 
NDA template at Watsons Taiwan, there is no time period limit and no specific contract 
object in the NDA.  Therefore, the signed NDA is valid lifelong.   
 
Tender notice has to be prepared and sent to the prospective suppliers (preferably 
including the existing supplier unless proven unsatisfactory) as an invitation to tender.  A 
sample Invitation to Tender is attached in the Appendix 3 for reference.  The sample 
template should be followed for all tenders with necessary modifications depending on 
type of goods/services being tendered.  It is preferable to issue an ITT with our preferred 
contract terms and on the basis that such terms will be binding if the tenderer is awarded 
the contract. If preferred contract terms and conditions are to be included on a binding 
basis or as an indication of expected contract terms (not explicitly binding) or the services 
to be provided involve processing of Personal Data, these must be reviewed and approved 
by BU Legal Department in advance of issue of the tender invitation, and as part of the 
tender preparation process. 


--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
15 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
 
Tender is different from quotations as it requires prospective suppliers to submit their 
sealed bids and other related tender document by a certain deadline.  Tender documents 
should be dropped in a designated tender box where the key is under custody of an 
“independent custodian” (e.g. Finance) until the appointed open tendering date under the 
witness of an independent party.  At least totally 3 authorized persons from user 
department, Non Trade Procurement and Finance Department will participate the open 
tender meeting.  All quote prices have to be clearly stated on the Open Tender Report 
which has to be signed by witnesses from the three above mentioned 
departments/functions. 
 
BU can apply for exemption via FCS from the requirement of having an independent 
witness in opening tenders if they are received via a tendering system or dedicated email 
account which can ensure (i) confidentiality of submitted tenders prior to tender opening 
and (ii) data integrity of tenders after tender opening. 
 
BUs are encouraged to strike even more favorable trading terms through further rounds of 
negotiations.  Details of the revised scope or price expectation must be communicated to 
the shortlisted suppliers on the same basis.  In case the lowest tender for goods and 
services of comparable quality or the prospective supplier with the highest score is not 
shortlisted, the decision must be made transparent to the tender committee with 
documented justifications.   
 
Re-submission is treated in the same manner as the initial tender submission, and must be 
opened in the presence of an independent party.  No private conversation or negotiation 
with the prospective suppliers is allowed without presence of any tender committee 
member, or his / her delegate, to mitigate any collusion risks. 
 
Pricing from different rounds of supplier proposals must be clearly documented and 


--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
16 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
supported with source quotations or tenders submitted by the vendors. For re-negotiation 
with finalist(s) whose re-submission is not done in the same manner as the initial tender 
submission, as a minimum, an email summary should be sent to each individual finalist to 
confirm the renegotiation results. 
 
As a best practice, BU can inform in writing to the supplier(s) who have joined the tender 
but were not awarded for the contract, but this should be done only after securing the 
signed contract with the preferred supplier(s). This ensures that the preferred supplier 
appreciates that there are other suppliers who could be selected if the negotiation with 
that preferred supplier does not proceed well and also provides the BU with a backup. 
 
 For spending requiring IC approval according to the ASW Group Policy on Investment, the 
corresponding tender arrangement should be reviewed by GPS and Group Finance 
according the following protocol:  
 
-  Before proceeding with each tendering project, around 5 to 6 months prior to 
expiry of a current contract, or commencement of a new contract, BUs must 
complete Part A of the IC Submission Question List (Appendix 4) and submit it to 
GPS (Group Procurement Services) and Group Data Privacy (if the matter is likely to 
concern processing of personal data) for compliance review.  GPS will review the 
pre-tender process for compliance, as well as identification of joint-tendering 
opportunities or common suppliers with other BUs for the benefit of the whole 
ASW Group.  
-   At the end of the tendering: BUs must complete Part B of the IC Submission 
Question List (Appendix 4) with the tender results and recommendation for final 
review by both Group Finance, GPS and Group Data Privacy (if the matter is likely to 
concern processing of personal data) and other related Group Functions before 
submission to IC for approval.  
 


--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
17 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
For exceptional cases relating to tender submissions, e.g. late submission by certain 
supplier with valid reasons, late invitation of additional tenders after the pre-agreed 
invitees and tender schedules, etc., the justifications should be documented for approval 
by all tender committee members before such exceptional tenders are accepted. 
 
4.7 Sourcing Report and Scoring Mechanism 
 
 After reviewing quotes and completing scoring if needed, a sourcing report will be created 
and used for supplier assessment.  The criterion of supplier assessment should be based 
on best value, such as prices, service, suppliers’ expertise, quality, delivery, warranty scope,  
innovation and initiatives that would help meet the Group 2030 Sustainability Vision (to be 
considered whenever appropriate and practicable) as published in the Group CSR Portal, 
etc.   
 
As Sustainability is now a strategic focus of the Group, the following baselines are 
mandatory to be considered: 
▪ All Supply Chain Tenders – Sustainability should take at least 10% score in the supplier 
evaluation 
▪ Plastic carrier bags / packaging material – must contain a minimum 30% of 
Post-Consumer Recycled (“PCR”) material 
▪ Printing and copying paper – must be made exclusively from sustainable material (FSC, 
PEFC or recycled) 
 
BU are encouraged to include the sustainable factors in the selection criteria, and should 
contribute to at least 10% minimum in weighting. Suppliers that can offer product / 
services that can help to achieve the Group 2030 Sustainability Vision should be given 
priority in the assessment. Below are some possible factors that can be take into 
consideration: 
▪ Provide any viable recycling, close loop, reduce, reuse, refurbishment proposal 
▪ Using sustainable energy for the production or distribution 


--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 
18 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
▪ Equip with innovative and viable proposal that could reduce carbon emissions 
▪ Established a ESG policy that align with the direction of our Group 
 
A weighted scoring system (where “price” should form at least 50% of the overall score) 
should be established upfront to avoid last-minute changes after the tenders/quotations 
have been submitted.   
 
      The “price” element should be scored quantitatively instead of judgmentally.  For example, 
under a scoring system of 1-5 (5 being the highest score), score can be assigned to the 
“price” element of each tender/quotation based on the following computation:  
Example:  Tender/Quotation 
Amount in NT$ Score 
Tender 1 / Quotation 1 5M 5.00 
Tender 2 / Quotation 2 6M 4.17 (5M/6M*5) 
Tender 3 / Quotation 3 7.5M 3.33 (5M/7.5M*5) 
Tender 4 / Quotation 4 8M 3.13 (5M/8M*5) 
Tender 5 / Quotation 5 9M 2.78 (5M/9M*5) 
 The score of price element shall be rounded to 2 decimal places.  All other criteria shall 
be evaluated in integer.   
      Quotation final results and decision have to be signed off by the Head of User Department 
and FD (or senior competent delegates).  Tender final results and decision have to be 
signed off by the Head of User Department, all Tender Committee members (tenders), FD 
and GM (LOA).  Both quotation and tender related document including the justification 
has to be clearly documented.  
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
19 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
 The following chart is to explain the sourcing process:  
 
 
4.8 Except Report 
 
     No matter the purchase amount is between NT$100,001 and HK$3M or HK$3M above, if 
the lowest tender for goods and services of comparable quality or the prospective supplier 
with the highest score is not selected or if it is a sole source/appointed supplier and the 
required number of quotations or tenders cannot be obtained, the decision must be 
justified and the reasons must be documented.  In addition, approval has to be obtained 
from BU’s GM, FD, User Department Head, related parties and Non-trade Procurement 
Section Head to endorse this decision.  Further approval from Divisional Management, 
Group Office or IC may be necessary (depending on contract value) according to the ASW 
Group of Investment.  The Exception Report has to be filed with all other sourcing 
document/supporting and be available for audit inspection.   
 
4.9 Changes on Tender/Quotation  
 
      In some cases, if the lowest tender/quotation or the highest score supplier cannot meet 
 Non Trade Procurement shall source potential suppliers according to pre-defined specifications and issue RFQ/RFP to suppliers unless 1) Security Dept has to execute security clearance/on-site check prior to invitation to bidding; 2) Tendering process  Non Trade Procurement conduct quote/proposal analysis Mockup or dummy production and confirmation, supplier assessment, contract finalization Quotation/tendering process (quotes/proposals submission by deadline) User dept. provides precise specifications, requirement, quantity and budget while submitting PR Form and/or Capex Request Form 


--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
20 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
the required budget level, Non Trade Procurement shall notify user department and the 
tender committee of the gap.   BU can amend the project or service scope and invite all 
original prospective suppliers to re-submit their tenders.  Any tendering scope, 
specification, evaluation criteria, weightage and tenderer list changes as well as supplier 
assessment must be informed and approved by tender committee.  
 
 If there is any practical constraint of the project such that re-submission of tenders from all 
prospective suppliers is not possible, the lowest bidder or the highest score supplier should 
be selected for price re-negotiation purpose based on the changes of project or service 
scope.  If suppliers other than the lowest bidder or the highest score supplier are involved 
in the price re-negotiation process (instead of re-tendering), the justification should be 
documented and approved by BU’s GM and FD or Group Management if needed.  
 The potential conflict of interest risks should also be mitigated with proper retention of (i) 
the trail of communications with each selected supplier for price re-negotiation purpose 
and (ii) the final offer from each supplier which should be provided in writing.  
 
      For quotations, if the lowest quotation or the quotation with the highest score cannot meet 
the required budget level, BUs can amend the project or service scope and invite all the 
original prospective suppliers for re-submit their quotations.  
 
4.10 Retaining Purchasing Data  
 
 All quotation documents have to be retained by the BUs for a minimum period of 3 years 
and all tender documents should be retained for a minimum period of 5 years following the 
end of contractual period for future audit purpose.   
 
4.11 Purchase Order (PO) 
 
Before issuing an official purchase order to suppliers, the Purchase Requisition Form should 
be approved according to the LOA regulation.  In addition, the PO amount must be within 
PR amount (budget).  An official purchase order for the amount of NT$100,000 above will 


--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 
21 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
only be issued by Non Trade Procurement.   
 
4.12 Contract Conception, Review and Approval 
 
 In general, the contract duration shall be limited to maximal 3 years.  Non Trade 
Procurement must conduct price and supplier market survey at least every three years in 
order to understand price competitiveness and products/services quality for time purchase.  
A supplier performance appraisal based on the agreed KPI must be conducted by user 
department before re-tendering when the purchase order or contractual purchase amount 
with value of HK$3M above.  
 
It is necessary to sign a contract, if Watsons Taiwan and suppliers would like to concisely  
define mutual legal right and obligation in a formal written form.  However, BUs have to sign 
a formal contract for any procurement with estimated or committed value of or more than 
HK$0.5M or other conditions stated in the Group Legal Policy.  
 
Non-trade Procurement is required to maintain a register of all types of Non-trade 
procurement contracts with their contract expiry dates.   
 
For spending requiring IC approval, BUs and Group Functions have the obligation to allow 
sufficient lead-time in conducting the tendering and submitting the results for review by 
Group Finance and GPS prior to IC approval.  New Contract must be signed before expiry of 
the existing contract if continuity of service is required.  
 
Upon receiving the final feedback and confirmation from the lawyer, Non Trade 
Procurement/User Department will email a softcopy of the contract to suppliers for sign-off 
procedure.  Suppliers will mail the approved contract to user department for completing the 
Corporate Chop Usage Application Form and submit the application form to Non Trade 
Procurement for further sign-off at Watsons Taiwan.  The internal contract approval will 
follow the current LOA regulation.  One original copy of contract should be centrally kept by 


--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
22 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
IA Department for filing and reference.  
 
Contract renewal with the existing supplier without conducting the necessary tendering 
procedures is considered a violation of the policy.  However, a commercial situation may 
arise that prevents the tendering from being completed on time and a new contract awarded 
before the expiry of existing contract.  In such circumstances, it is allowable for the existing 
contract to be temporarily extended once (only) for a maximum period of 3 months, (or 6 
months if the delay is due to facilitation of joint tendering time lines arranged by the Group) 
without the tendering requirements provided that:  
- the same (or better) terms and condition in the existing contract apply to the 
extended contract period;  
- the contract value for the extended period is below the approval threshold of 
Divisional Management (if applicable) or Investment Committee (please refer to 
ASW Group Policy on Investment for details) 
 
If any of the above cannot be met, separate pre-approvals by the Divisional Management 
and/or Investment Committee are required according to the ASW Group Policy on 
Investment.   
 
In extreme cases where the contract has to be further extended after the initial extension 
period, regardless of the “extended” contract value, pre-approvals by the Divisional 
Management (if applicable) and/or Investment Committee will be required if the original 
contract was previously approved by them in accordance with the level of authority.  
 
All BUs must have the following assessments be satisfactorily completed on the supplier (as 
applicable) before entering into contract: 
• Privacy Assessment (“PAT”) 
• IT Security Assessment (“SAT”) 
• Supplier Due Diligence (“SDD”) 


--- PAGE 23 ---
 
 
23 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
 
As best practice, BUs are encouraged to negotiate contractual rights that would allow us the  
flexibility of switching to other suppliers if needed, e.g.: 
▪ Control over the necessary information and records that is critical for supplier switchover 
(e.g., system source code) 
▪ Avoiding a long contract without exit clause 
 
In case a supplier is contractually entitled to share a portion of the BU’s revenue / margin 
(which is not encouraged in general), BU should negotiate the following protective terms 
whenever appropriate and practicable: 
▪ A regressive sharing scheme with declining share % upon increasing revenue / margin;  
▪ An upper limit on the amount shared with the supplier 
▪ A window to update the sharing scheme during the contract in case actual performance 
significantly exceeds the initial projection to an unexpected extent  
▪ Non-exclusivity (i.e., ASW is contractually allowed to switch to any other supplier at any 
time) 
 
4.13 Purchase Order Variation/Work Variation  
 
For Rate Card Contracts (i.e., no financial commitment), the above-mentioned thresholds 
should be determined based on the estimated spending over the contract period. To 
accommodate unexpected increase in procurement volume, BUs are encouraged to take a 
conservative approach in determining the estimated spending and go for tender (instead of 
quotation) in case the estimated spending is close to the threshold that would trigger the 
tender requirement. 
 
For variation orders (i.e., additional scope / changes to the scope of service without unit rates 
defined in the original contract) exceeding 10% of the original contract value, where formal 
quotes or tenders from competing suppliers is not practical, there must be an assessment 
(e.g., based on market information / benchmarking against similar spending in the past, etc.) 


--- PAGE 24 ---
 
 
24 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
to justify that the price offered by the incumbent is reasonably competitive. This assessment 
must be signed off by the approver(s) of the quotation/tender results of the original contract. 
 
When it is foreseen that purchase volume would significantly exceed initial forecast after 
awarding the contract, BUs are encouraged to re-negotiate better unit rates with suppliers 
based on the additional volume. As best practice, BUs are encouraged to set up a “tier-system” 
with decreasing unit price upon increasing volume whenever possible and practicable. 
 
Furthermore, please also refer to the A.S. Watson Group Policy on Investment 4.7 CapEx 
Overspend.  If the overspend amount is less than 10% and can be offset by net savings in 
other projects within the same CapEx category, the Capex Project Requisition should obtain 
FD and GM approval.  If the variation amount is greater than 10% or can’t be offset by net 
savings in other projects within the same CapEx category or all other cases, ASW Investment 
Committee’s approval is required.  Please see further details in 4.7 of A.S. Watson Group 
Policy on Investment.   
 
4.14 Goods Receipt  
 
 User departments shall execute receiving (Goods Receipt) on Oracle Purchasing System 
before payment request process.  The good receipt is to be executed when the delivered 
quantity, specification and quality are in accordance with purchase order, contract and/or 
confirmed sample.  For some specific purchases which belong to non-scope of Non Trade 
Procurement, users still need to follow the paper payment process with payment request 
form, invoice and goods receipt document.   
 
Services or goods delivered to stores can be substantiated by supporting document, such as 
good receipt slip with store chop or signature of store manager.  Head office representing 
user can help conduct system receiving confirmation base on such supporting document.  
  
 


--- PAGE 25 ---
 
 
25 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
4.15 Payment Request (Please refer to Payment Policy SOP-F0008-1) 
 
 User Department is responsible for the payment request procedure.  Please see the 
necessary document for payment request below if there is an Oracle Purchasing:  
 Completed Payment Request Form 
 Invoice with PO number  
 Receiving process executed on Oracle PO system for Oracle PO items and goods 
receipt slips from suppliers and stores or warehouse document 
The necessary payment request document for non-Oracle PO purchase is as follows:  
 Properly signed payment request form 
 Invoice 
 Receiving confirmation  
 
4.16 Supplier Performance Evaluation 
 
For suppliers, who have purchase order or contractual purchase amount with value of HK$3M 
above, the supplier performance should be evaluated based on the agreed KPI by user 
department and related functions if needed.  The evaluation shall be conducted before 
re-tendering and in April annually.  The evaluation result should be signed off by User 
Department Head.   
  
An evaluation system should be established to assess the performance of suppliers and  
these appraisal records should be taken into account in the periodic review of the ASL,  
the contract/supplier review before contract expiration and further quotation or tendering 
process.   
 
For this purpose, a Supplier Performance Evaluation Form shall be distributed by Non-trade 
Procurement in order to collect users’ feedback.  For suppliers appointed by Group/Regional 
Office, BU is still required to execute period supplier performance evaluation based on the 
agreed KPI by user department and related functions if needed and submit the result to the 
relevant Group/Regional Teams for their review.  


--- PAGE 26 ---
 
 
26 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
 
The evaluation rating is detailed below:  
       1 and 2 – unsatisfied 
        3 and 4 – less satisfied 
  5 and 6 – satisfied 
  7 and 8 – excellent  
  9 and 10 – outstanding  
     The evaluation result with rating of 5 and 6 (satisfied) is a minimum requirement for being a 
qualified supplier.  All scores have to be round-off calculated in the supplier evaluation. 
  
4.16.1 Annual review of supplier performance  
          All suppliers with purchase orders or contracts with the accumulated purchase 
amount in the year equal to or more than HK$3M shall be annually reviewed usually in 
April.  If the annual supplier performance evaluation result is not satisfactory (Rating 
of 5 above), basically, the contract shall be terminated.  Please refer to 4.16.2 for 
related actions.  Besides, the annual evaluation result will be taken into account of 
tender criteria and contract extension.   
 
4.16.2 Failure in supplier performance appraisal:  
In the annual evaluation, if the supplier is under-performed in terms of price, product 
and service quality with the rating from 1 to 4, Non Trade Procurement shall 
coordinate with suppliers and/or user departments for understanding more in details 
and find out solutions together with suppliers and user departments first.  If the 
supplier performance still cannot be improved in a pre-defined period, the 
cooperation/contract must be terminated without any extension and further RFQ/RFP 
process.  In some cases, it is difficult to find some other suppliers to replace the 
under-performed suppliers in a specific period and has to keep working with the 
supplier, an exception report has to be submitted and get Management’s approval. 
 


--- PAGE 27 ---
 
 
27 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
If needed, the under-performed supplier can be taken into consideration of a 
re-evaluation after 6 months of the removal from ASL.  Any exceptional 
measurement and re-collaboration other than termination must be approved by 
Finance Director and General Manager.   
 
4.17 Other Situations 
According to current Group Policy on Non Trade Procurement, BUs are required to ensure our 
suppliers comply with Group Policy on Non Trade Procurement, notably the 
quotation/tendering requirements, when they outsource the service/product to 
sub-contractors and the cost charged to the BU is based on actual bill charged by the 
sub-contractors.  In such cases, ASW should be contractually entitled to audit rights of the 
actual bill charged by the sub-contractors. 
 
For service contracts, suppliers should be contractually restricted from subcontracting 
without prior written consent from ASW whenever appropriate and practicable. As best 
practice, prospective suppliers are requested to inform ASW of any subcontracting 
arrangements (be it partially or fully subcontracted) during tender invitation stage. 
 
Quotation/tendering may not be applicable to certain procurements (e.g. media buying 
directly with media owners).  However, the justification must be documented and the 
exception to Policy requirement has to be approved by both BU’s GM and FD according to 
estimated budget amount and its approval level.   
  
4.18 Quality control 
 
    User departments and Non Trade Procurement will jointly supervise the quality of supplier,  
    goods and services.  Non Trade Procurement is obligated to coordinate issues and conflicts      
    among user departments, suppliers and agencies if needs.  
 
 


--- PAGE 28 ---
 
 
28 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
4.19 Process flowcharts (See Appendix 5)  
 
4.20 Purchase-related Forms (See Appendix 6) 
 
 Regional Proposal Template 
 Exception Report Template 
 Pre-Tendering Summary 
 Sourcing Report 
 Open-tendering Report 
 Purchase Order Variation Form  
 Supplier Profile Form 
 Payment Request Form (updated) 
 
5.0 Integrity 
 
 All employees engaged in non-trade activities, including but not limited to specification design, 
supplier qualification, supplier scoring and selection, receiving confirmation, supplier evaluation, 
payment request and checking, ASL add or removal, etc., must strictly comply the anti-bribery 
and code of conduct policies stipulated in company policies, and proactively report any receipt 
of gifts or treatments / meals from supplier.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
6.0 Re-approval diagrams 
6.1 Rate-Card Opex Overspends 
Yes 
No 
CKHH Approval
2
 (via ASW)
ASW Group Approval
2
Divisional MD & FD Approval
3
BU GM & FD Approval 
Is it ≥ HK$ 5 m? 
Overspend due to non-volume 
reason (e.g. higher unit rates)? 
No need for 
re-approval 
Authorization Level1 
1. If more than one option apply (e.g. the request involves engagement of third party representatives), the highest 
authorization level that is applicable should be sought
2. Any request for ASW Group or CKHH approval must include appropriately substantiated memo signed by Divisional
MD and FD prior to submission
3. Any request for Divisional MD and FD approval must include appropriately substantiated memo signed by BU GM and 
FD prior to submission


--- PAGE 30 ---
 
 
30 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
6.2 Commitment Opex Overspends 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes No 
Sum of overspend PLUS original 
planned amount would be within 
BU’s authority? 
Overspend 
< 10% 
Was approved by 
ASW IC? 
Sum of overspend PLUS original 
planned amount would within 
Division’s authority? 
1. If more than one option apply (e.g. the request involves engagement of third party representatives), the highest 
authorization level that is applicable should be sought 
2. Any request for ASW Group or CKHH approval must include appropriately substantiated memo signed by Divisional 
MD and FD prior to submission 
3. Any request for Divisional MD and FD approval must include appropriately substantiated memo signed by BU GM and 
FD prior to submission 
CKHH Approval2 (via ASW) ASW Group Approval2 Divisional MD & FD Approval3 BU GM & FD Approval 
Authorization Level1 


--- PAGE 31 ---
 
 
31 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
6.3 Capex Overspends 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Was approved by CKHH? 
Sum of overspend PLUS original planned 
amount would be within BU’s authority? 
Overspend < 10% and net 
off with savings within BU? 
Overspend < 10% and net 
off with savings within 
Division? 
Was approved by ASW IC? 
CKHH Approval2 (via ASW) ASW Group Approval2 Divisional MD & FD Approval3 BU GM & FD Approval 
Sum of overspend PLUS original 
planned amount would within 
Division’s authority? 
Authorization Level1 
1. If more than one option apply (e.g. the request involves engagement of third party representatives), the highest 
authorization level that is applicable should be sought 
2. Any request for ASW Group or CKHH approval must include appropriately substantiated memo signed by Divisional 
MD and FD prior to submission 
3. Any request for Divisional MD and FD approval must include appropriately substantiated memo signed by BU GM and 
FD prior to submission 


--- PAGE 32 ---
 
 
32 
Non-Trade Procurement 
Watsons Taiwan 
Appendix 1 
Non Trade Procurement Process Briefing 22122014.xlsx 
Appendix 2 
2013 Capex Project Requisition.doc 
Appendix 3 
ITT ver.202311.doc 
Appendix 4 
Appendix 4)  IC Submission Question List v5.1 (Mar 2020).xlsx 
Appendix 5 
Non Trade Procurement Flow Charts 22122014.doc
Appendix 5 - Workflow diagram summarising control checkpoints prior to contracting with a new supplier.pdf 
 
Appendix 6 
 
Regional Approval Request Template Mar 2015.docx
Sourcing Report Template.xls
Pre-tendering Summary.doc
Open Tendering Report Template.xls
供應商基本資料錄表.doc
Conflict of Interest - Declaration Template.docx 